

William Faulkner drew a picture for the 1916-1917 

annual of the University of Mississippi. It began a series 

of contributions he was to make during the next eight 

years to that annual, to the University newspaper, and to 

a University humor magazine. By 1925 these three publi- 

cations had brought out at least sixteen more of his draw- 

ings, sixteen of his poems, his first published short story 

and prose sketch, and six of his reviews and literary 

articles — the artistic explorations of a young man who 

would become the best novelist his country has pro- 

duced in this century. 



Faulkner's father, an officer in the administration of 

the University of Mississippi, which adjoins the town of 

Oxford, had a house on its campus, in which William 

Faulkner lived for much of the period under discussion 

here. In such close physical association with the Uni- 

versity he found its publications open to him not only 

during the time he was enrolled as a student but earlier 

when he worked at a bank and later when he ran the 

University Post Office. 



[ 3 ] 







A former student of that era has kindly volunteered 

his memory that Faulkner wrote in 1916 for the Uni- 

versity's newspaper two or three imitation "Letters of a 

Japanese School Boy" which were his earliest publica- 

tions. A series of such letters did appear; but at its con- 

clusion the newspaper identified its author as another 

man, and there seems to be little possibility of attributing 

individual letters from that series to Faulkner. It seems 

equally impossible to attribute to him with any certainty 

another, shorter series of imitation letters of the same 

period, though he may have written some of them. Even 

high school publications as yet unavailable may contain 

written juvenilia or drawings similar to ten of Faulkner's 

pen-and-ink school sketches which survive from 1913. 

But his first published work which this investigation has 

been able to identify is the signed drawing for the 1916- 

1917 Ole Miss annual. 



It was followed the next year by two signed drawings 

in the 1917-1918 Ole Miss, one of them for the same 

"Social Activities" page his first had decorated, the other 

to decorate a page listing the members of a dancing 

group. Faulkner presumably supplied the staff of Ole 

Miss with these drawings before April 10, 1918; for on 

that day he began work as a ledger clerk at an armament 

company in Connecticut. Signing up with the Royal Fly- 

ing Corps, and then resigning from his job as clerk on 

June 15, 1918, he made a brief trip home to visit his 

family before leaving Mississippi on July 8, 1918, for 

Toronto, Canada, to begin training as a pilot. Four 

months later came the Armistice. When the British re- 



[ 4 ] 









William Faulkner in 1918, as a Cadet in the 

Royal Flying Corps, Training in Canada 







[ 5 ] 







leased him from training the following month, he returned 

from Canada to Mississippi. 



That spring and summer — according to Phil Stone, 

a close associate of those days — Faulkner did even 

more reading than usual and wrote much of the poetry 

he would revise for The Marble Faun of five years later. 

On August 6, 1919, The New Republic printed his poem 

"L'Apres-Midi d'un Faune," his first piece of writing 

known to have been published and his first published 

draft on the Symbolist poets from whom he would draw 

so much. At summer's end, on September 19, 1919, he 

registered as a student at the University of Mississippi, 

enrolling in French, Spanish, and the sophomore survey 

of English literature. 



His first contributions to the University's newspaper, 

The Mississippian, were a slightly revised version of 

"L'Apres-Midi d'un Faune" in October and, on Novem- 

ber 12, 1919, the poem "Cathay." "Cathay" illustrates 

some of the uncertainties which accompany reprinting 

these pieces: Lines of the poem in The Mississippian 

seem to have been disturbed by faulty typesetting, but 

perfect guidance for emendation is not to be found in the 

other three available versions. The most accessible of the 

three is a typescript William Faulkner loaned to the 

Princeton University Library for its exhibition of 1957, 

which now can be seen as Plate 3 among the illustrations 

in James B. Meriwether's excellent book The Literary 

Career of William Faulkner (Princeton, 1961). It differs 

from the printed version at points where The Mississip- 



[ 6 ] 







pian seems not to have made typographical errors. The 

other two versions came to light about a decade after a 

1941 fire had destroyed a house containing early Faulk- 

ner papers — when I was able, with the kind consent 

and help of the owners, to separate from the debris, dry 

out, and read more than four hundred and seventy pages, 

including a damaged holograph version of this poem 

dated 1920 and an undated, damaged typescript of it. 

They differ at several points not only from the version 

in The Mississippian but from the version Mr. Faulk- 

ner loaned to Princeton. These documents differ be- 

cause William Faulkner revised and improved his early 

poems for several years, printing some of them as late 

as 1933, after he not only had become a novelist but 

had created that fictional masterpiece, The Sound and 

the Fury. 



The Mississippian launched Faulkner as an author of 

fiction two weeks after it had printed his poem "Cathay," 

when it brought out on November 26, 1919, the first 

story he is known to have published, titled "Landing in 

Luck" and set at a military training aerodrome in 

Canada. 



In the same issue the newspaper published another 

of his poems, "Sapphics," and in subsequent issues during 

the rest of that 1919-1920 academic year published ten 

more. Most of them were more sophisticated than the 

verse other students wrote for the newspaper, and the 

discrepancy created opposition to Faulkner's work. On 

February 4, 1920, the week after he published "Une 



[ 7 ] 







Ballade des Femmes Perdues," a fellow student parodied 

it. After Faulkner published "Naiads' Song" and "Fan- 

toches," which the paper mis-set as "Fantouches," the 

parodist struck again, with "Whotouches," signed "J." 

As an artist partly apprenticed to the Symbolists, Faulk- 

ner already must have learned from them to expect hos- 

tility of this sort; and one would like to imagine that, while 

he was learning to adapt to his own circumstances and 

skills some of the aesthetic practice and theory of the 

authors of "L'Apres-midi dun Faune" and "Fantoches," 

Faulkner was also learning from les poetes maudits 

to cherish more and more the natural independence and 

self-containment within which he has recorded his aes- 

thetic perceptions with remarkable indifference to much 

neglect and hostility during long early years, great adula- 

tion during recent years, and considerable misunder- 

standing throughout. 



With his "Fantoches," on February 25, 1920, Faulk- 

ner began the publication of a group of four poems which 

he specifically connected with their source, in this case 

the work of Paul Verlaine. "Clair de Lune," the second 

of this group of four — all of them using Verlaine's 

titles — appeared on March 3, 1920, and the third, 

"Streets," on March 17. Faulkner's adaptation of Ver- 

laine's "Streets" was not his only contribution to that 

issue of The Mississippian; in addition to a poem called 

"A Poplar" he published one of the very few responses 

he has ever made to the reactions of his readers, a reply 

to the student "J" who had parodied two of his earlier 

poems. Appearing under the title "The Ivory Tower," 



[ 8 ] 







this reply said (in part and with the obvious typographical 

errors removed): 



Ben Jonson, himself a strong advocate of Mirth, has said 

that laughter is one of our most valuable possessions. Which 

is quite true: Imagine what this world would be without it. 

Yet mirth requires two things: humor and a sense of humor. 

I flatter myself that I possess the latter; but — and I am sure 

I am unprejudiced — my unknown "affinity" has notably 

failed in producing the former. I will state further, that in 

his present vein he will never achieve it without asking — 

and accepting — collaboration. It were not sufficient that I 

boldly make this statement lest the reader justifiably cry 

"Wolf!"; yet the matter is scarcely worth exhausting either 

my vocabulary or the reader's patience, so I shall be as brief 

as possible. 



(1.) The first poem submitted by him was stupid, for my 

own poem was stupid. One sees at a glance then, the utter 

valuelessness of an imitation of an imitation. (2.) This though, 

was not the only way in which the poet sinned. The most de- 

plorable thing was his meaningless and unnecessary parading 

of his doubtless extensive knowledge of the Latin language. 

To my mind there is nothing as vulgar as a conscious mingling 

of two languages — unless, of course, the mingling gives 

shades and tones that the work would not otherwise possess. 

Whatever tones and shades his poem possessed could have, it 

seems to me, been drawn in single language (its clarity could 

have been enhanced, in all probability, by adhering to some 

simple language such as an early Aztec dialect). This though, 

is beside the point. 



The second poem is not worthy of note, closely resembling 

the first in being a vulgarly stupid agglomeration of words. 

... if this be humor, then I have lost my sense of it; unless 

humor is, like evil, in the eye of the beholder. 



[ 9 ] 







However, if he has, by any chance, gained the effect for 

which he has so palpably striven, the answer is, of course, 

simply de gustibus. 



William Falkner. 



Faulkner, in signing this response, followed the form 

of his family name which his father, grandfather, and 

great-grandfather used, as he did in signing most of his 

University of Mississippi pieces which are reprinted here. 

Discussions of who put the "u" in William Faulkner's 

name rival in number the renditions of that great musical 

question about the overalls in Mrs. Murphy's chowder. 

Insignificant as the matter is, the continual confusion 

concerning it illustrates the immaturity of much writing 

about Faulkner. The customary — and wrong — ex- 

planation of the change in spelling is one of the small 

counterfeit coins which too many workers in the Faulk- 

ner industry have passed among themselves from the 

beginning to the present. For example, the most recent 

of the American books of Faulkner criticism, Frederick 

J. Hoffman, William Faulkner (New York, 1961), re- 

ferring to the year 1924 in its "Chronology," says, "First 

book published: The Marble Faun, a book of poems, 

published by the Four Seas Co. of Boston. Because of 

printer's error, a "u" added to Faulkner's name, which 

he has retained." That is as untrue as an even less inter- 

esting piece of this minor coinage which once again re- 

appears in another recent, small book, Michael Millgate, 

William Faulkner (Edinburgh, 1961): that in the First 

World War, as Millgate puts it, Faulkner "managed to 

join the Canadian Flying Corps," which must have taken 



[ 10 ] 







considerable managing because in that war Canada had 

no air force. These bits of biographical counterfeit, of 

course, have no importance whatever. But when such 

tertiary books, drawing them from dubious secondary 

sources, offer them again and again, they are an obvious 

reminder of the existence of a more subtle, much more 

significant false coinage of critical judgment which such 

books also circulate. The "u" in Faulkner's name began 

to appear intermittently some years before the publication 

of The Marble Faun in 1 924 by printers to whose error 

the spelling is continually attributed. According to the 

staff of the armament company for which Faulkner 

worked in Connecticut from April into June of 1918, 

his name appears in their records of that year's employees 

as "William Faulkner." His first known published literary 

work signed "Faulkner" is his first known published 

literary work: "L'Apres-Midi d'un Faune," New Re- 

public, 1919. To reduce the possibility that writers on 

Faulkner will attribute that insertion of the "u" — more 

than five years before the publication of The Marble 

Faun — to an error by the New Republic printers, it may 

be well to mention other early appearances of "Faulk- 

ner." Among the burned sheets of his early writings 

salvaged some years ago was a small, badly damaged, 

beautifully produced booklet of poems, hand-lettered 

as a gift to a friend, titled The Lilacs, dated January 1, 

1920, and bearing, carefully lettered by its author, the 

name "W. Faulkner." One of the two copies I have read 

of the booklet titled Marionettes, which Faulkner "pub- 

lished" himself in pen-and-ink and circulated to a few 



[ 11 ] 









William Faulkner in the Uniform 

of the British Air Force 







[ 12 ] 







friends, bears the date "1920" and the name "W. Faulk- 

ner," both in Faulkner's characteristic lettering. In ad- 

dition to his booklet The Lilacs, other items among the 

fire-damaged papers of his University of Mississippi years 

which relate to this little matter are typescripts of poems 

by "William Faulkner" which bear-dates earlier than that 

of The Marble Faun. So, apparently, this is one puz- 

zling spelling printers did not cause, and the answer to 

the question Who Put the "u" in William Faulkner's 

Name? is William Falkner. 



Whatever way he was spelling his family name, Faulk- 

ner's importing to the Mississippi campus not only the 

works of French Symbolists but a walking stick; his 

detached air of unemployment which masked his dedica- 

tion to the labor of writing, which has produced more 

than twenty-five books and was already producing the 

formative published and unpublished pieces of those 

early years; and his awareness, common to uncommon 

genius, that he would one day become a first-rate artist 

— all these had led some of the college students to give 

him the nickname "Count," which the student "J" used 

in a letter printed in The Mississippian for March 24, 

1920. This is apparently the first published commentary 

on Faulkner's works — and one more similar in tone 

to many of the commentaries on Faulkner published be- 

fore the Second World War than it is pleasant to recol- 

lect: 



I feel it my duty to answer an article that appeared in 

the last issue of your very estimable paper. This article seems 

to have been written by a peculiar person who calls himself 



[ 13 ] 







William Falkner and who from all accounts undoubtedly re- 

sides in the remote village of Oxford, Miss. He says he "flat- 

ters" himself that he possesses a sense of humor. I say he flat- 

ters himself if he says he possesses anything. "I boldly make 

this statement lest the Editor justifiably cry 'Bull.' " I shall, of 

course, make this article very brief, desiring to conserve the 

valuable space in this paper and also my own exhaustible 

energy for some more serious subject. 



I feel, Mr. Editor, like kicking myself three successive 

times, each a trifle severer than the former. I tried so hard to 

find what the Count was "driving at," and only that he, him- 

self, admits his work was "stupid." Modesty forbids me 

using a stronger epithet than "stupid." 



I have written the parodies to give Count's poems a mean- 

ing; and behold! how little he appreciates my humble efforts. 



But permit me to wander. Mr. Editor, wouldn't this be a 

fine University if all of us were to wear sailor collars, monkey 

hats, and brilliant pantaloons; if we would 'mose' along the 

street by the aid of a walking prop; and, ye gods forbid, if we 

should while away our time singing of lascivious knees, smil- 

ing lute strings, and voluptuous toes? Wouldn't that be just 

too grand? 



Since Count used a quotation, allow me the same liberty. 

I use the words of Lord Byron, "He brays, the Laureate of 

the long-eared kind." 



And now, allow me to apologize for wasting your valuable 

time on such a subject, and permit me to remain, 



Your humble servant, 



— J. 



Two weeks later the controversy in The Mississippian 

over Faulkner's poetry had not abated, for the paper 

carried a brief note by Faulkner wondering of "J" "where 

did he learn English construction?" and a lengthy de- 



[ 14 ] 







fense of Faulkner by someone signing himself "F," a new 

participant in the controversy who seems now to our 

hindsight pleasantly perceptive: 



I feel it my duty to answer an article that appeared in the 

last issue of your very estimable paper. This article seems to 

have been written by a peculiar person who signs himself 

"J" . . . 



I think some gentle reader should undertake to defend 

Count in this controversy. Of all the by-products of nature, 

a poet is the least able to protect himself in such a di- 

lemma. . . . 



It is not intended to infer that Count could not answer this 

article as well as anyone else. However, he is probably now, 

in his fancy, with the keen discernment of a poetic eye, 

measuring the dimple on the knee of some fairy, figuratively 

speaking, so that he can convey to our thirsting souls in 

rhythmic verse its full significance. Rather than have him 

interrupted in this, I burden my weak shoulders with the task, 

and for once in my life perhaps place nobility under obliga- 

tions to me. 



"J" 's following Count's passionate outbursts with some of 

his Possum Hollow poetry adds about as much dignity and 

calm to the majestic pose and sweep of Count's literary 

course as a tomato can tied to a poodle's tail. . . . 



The only excuse he has for this propensity to pester the 

poets seems to be that he is giving them meaning. Ha! well 

might one use a raindrop to measure the ocean's depth, 

choose the movement of a turtle to explain the eagle's flight, 

or listen to the screech of the "J" bird to interpret the love 

notes of a dove. 



Poets don't sprout in every garden of learning, and how 

can they grow and bloom into a genius when they are con- 

tinually surrounded by bitterweeds. . . . 



[ 15 ] 







This defense of Faulkner's poetry ended the contro- 

versy with "J" except for a weak letter which "J" pub- 

lished almost a month later, on May 5, saying he had 

delayed his reply on the assumption that Faulkner's de- 

fender "had been shipped to Jackson for treatment" in the 

state insane asylum. The Mississippian published only two 

more parodies of Faulkner's poetry, apparently by new 

performers: in the same issue which contained the letter 

from "F," a parody of Faulkner's "Clair de Lune," titled 

"Cane de Looney"; and during the next month, on May 

12, a parody of his "Une Ballade des Femmes Perdues," 

titled "Une Ballade d'une Vache Perdue," execrably writ- 

ten but briefly arresting because of its crude presentation 

of a motif which Faulkner himself would use for humor 

in a piece first published in French translation during 

1943 as "L'Apres-midi d'une Vache" and which he 

would use for thematic point, parody, and pathos as well 

as humor in The Hamlet when the idiot wanders with his 

cow. Though the parodies ended and though Faulkner 

received visible support of his writing — in addition to 

that in the letter by "F" — when he won a prize for the 

best literary work in the 1920 Mississippian, a fellow 

student and good friend recalls that Faulkner's departure 

from campus poetic convention led to his being black- 

balled for membership in a literary society — a vote 

amusing to Faulkner's friend, and others. 



On April 14 The Mississippian published "A Cly- 

mene," the last of the four poems which Faulkner as- 

cribed to Verlaine. With "Study," on April 21, 1920, and 

"Alma Mater," on May 12, The Mississippian concluded 



[ 16 ] 







its publication of works by Faulkner during his first year 

as a student. But his University productions of that year 

were not over: the 1919-1920 Ole Miss in its end-of-year 

appearance contained six of his pieces, five of them 

drawings. Faulkner had served during the college year 

as one of the art editors on the staff under the writer 

Louis Cochran, who was then a student and the annual's 

editor in chief. In addition to Faulkner's drawings, the 

annual also contained his poem "To a Co-ed," which 

Cochran had invited him to contribute — and which has 

led Cochran to joke about having been the first publisher 

to get Faulkner's writing into a book. 



The next autumn, when Faulkner again enrolled at 

the University, he joined at once in formally founding the 

Marionettes as the University's official dramatic society. 

Faulkner's friend Ben Wasson, whose work later appeared 

on Broadway, was the first president; and Faulkner was 

in charge of staging the plays, such as The Arrival of 

Kitty, performed the next January. Members of the Mar- 

ionettes recall that several of them, including Faulkner, 

had enjoyed producing plays for a year or more before 

officially connecting their group with the University, and 

Faulkner was to continue with the society for some 

years beyond his semesters as a student, being an honor- 

ary member until 1925. 



Early in his association with the Marionettes, Faulkner 

wrote a one-act play titled Marionettes, which he "pub- 

lished" for friends as a few attractive hand-lettered book- 

lets. The first page of the text of one copy and its facing 

drawing have been made generally accessible as Figure 1 



[ 17 ] 







of the illustrations in James B. Meriwether, The Literary 

Career of William Faulkner. Another copy of the book- 

let contains fifty-three pages of hand-lettering and nine 

pages of line drawings. Some of the play's motifs come 

from other Faulkner works of that time — among them 

"A Poplar" and "Study" in The Mississippian as well as 

preliminary versions of the poetry he would later pub- 

lish as The Marble Faun — and from the works of other 

writers, including Verlaine and Amy Lowell, the motif 

of a well-groomed woman walking the formal paths of 

her garden presumably owing something to Miss Lowell's 

"Patterns." Despite great differences of intention and 

surface, this play introduces some elements which appear 

in at least two other prose works Faulkner wrote during 

the 'twenties: the story of Sir Galwyn in the unpublished 

allegorical booklet titled Mayday and Quentin Compson's 

section of The Sound and the Fury. Among the characters 

of this play, though it is much farther removed than 

Mayday from Quentin's monologue, are Pierrot, the 

Shade of Pierrot, Marietta, and the Spirit of Autumn, 

this last figure presenting the significance of mortality as 

do the man named Time in Mayday and Quentin's father 

in The Sound and the Fury. The suggestion that the 

troubled Pierrot may have drowned in a river looks ahead 

to the drownings which end the lives of both Sir Galwyn 

and Quentin Compson. 



During his period at the University of Mississippi, and 

probably rather early in it, Faulkner, according to a 

friend, wrote a brief, untitled, one-act play which appar- 

ently survived in only one copy. It shows how Ruth, an 



[ 18 1 







emancipated girl of the prohibition era, ends her en- 

gagement to the more worldly Francis and becomes en- 

gaged to pusillanimous Jim, who, though giving in to 

Ruth on all counts, wins her because, according to her, 

he is so dominating. One interested in identifying un- 

signed, unpublished works by Faulkner might like to 

feel at least the slightest of similarities between the quiet 

opening remark of this play and the noisy opening sen- 

tence of Jason's monologue in The Sound and the Fury 

as well as between the action of this play and the central 

motif of one of Faulkner's unpublished, fire-damaged, 

signed poems; but nothing whatever in the wording and 

plot of the play proves that it is by Faulkner. 



Before two months of the autumn semester of his 

second year had passed, Faulkner withdrew from en- 

rollment in the University, on November 5, 1920, and 

never again registered as a student! But this by no means 

severed his connection with the University's publications. 

Five days after he abandoned formal schooling The Mis- 

sissippian brought out the first of a series of his literary 

articles: a review of a volume of W. A. Percy's poetry in 

which Faulkner made the interesting remark that Percy 

" — like alas! how many of us — suffered the misfortune 

of having been born out of his time." The second in this 

series of articles discussed Conrad Aiken, whose poetry 

Faulkner respected and frequently quoted admiringly to 

his University of Mississippi friends, as he did the poetry 

of James Joyce, a volume of which he often carried 

about the campus. 



In May, 1921, The Mississippian, which retained 



[ 19 ] 







Faulkner's name on its staff roll as one of the "Contrib- 

uting Editors" despite his having resigned as a student, 

published his poem "Co-Education at Ole Miss." And at 

the end of that 1920-1921 academic year the Ole Miss 

annual, which also had retained Faulkner's name on its 

staff roll, as one of its art editors, published four of his 

drawings and his unsigned poem "Nocturne" with its 

decorative border, featuring it as a two-page spread which 

was impressive in spite of the reversal of the sequence of 

the plates — presumably a printers' error. 



Faulkner left Oxford during this period, staying for a 

time in New York City. One of his friends there was the 

writer Stark Young, a native of Mississippi whom he had 

known at Oxford. Young did more than offer Faulkner 

a temporary base in this unsettled period following col- 

lege; for, as he has helpfully written in a letter, he was 

able to introduce Faulkner to Elizabeth Prall, "in whose 

house I had a room, the room Bill shared for a time." 

Later Elizabeth Prall, by then the wife of Sherwood 

Anderson, was to introduce Faulkner to her husband in 

New Orleans to begin an association which Faulkner has 

since described as one he remembers with great pleasure. 



But before his important sojourn in New Orleans, 

Faulkner resumed for three years his association with 

the University of Mississippi. The University newspaper 

for Friday, December 9, 1921, in its "Locals" column 

reported: "William Falkner, former Ole Miss student, 

who has been in New York City for some time studying 

art, has returned to the University to take the temporary 

postmastership at the University post office." And an- 



[ 20 ] 







other article in the same issue, noting that the "exam- 

ination for the position was held Saturday in Oxford" for 

Faulkner and two other contestants, wished "the best 

man success." Faulkner won the position, and by March, 

1922, his recommendation to become permanent post- 

master reached the United States Senate for confirmation, 

which it received. 



The month after he began work in the University's 

post office, Faulkner began contributing again to The 

Mississippian, with a review of Edna St. Vincent Millay's 

Aria da Capo, on January 13, 1922, and an article prais- 

ing Eugene O'Neill, on February 3, 1922, both of them 

initialed "W.F." 



Though he had published his first piece of fiction, 

"Landing in Luck," almost as soon as he had enrolled as a 

student, Faulkner had published no other piece of fiction 

in the more than two years that had passed when on 

March 10, 1922, The Mississippian printed a prose 

sketch, "The Hill," which it credited merely to "W.F." 

The sketch is so closely related to a poem by Faulkner — 

the tenth in A Green Bough — that there is no problem 

about ascription; but for confirmation that he wrote this 

and the four other Mississippian pieces signed "W.F." I 

am indebted to a former member of the newspaper's staff. 

The week following the appearance of this sketch The 

Mississippian printed the first part of an article by Faulk- 

ner called "American Drama: Inhibitions," which it com- 

pleted in the next week's issue. That spring the Ole Miss 

annual for 1922 contained, on the page of the French 

Club, its last drawing by Faulkner, ending an association 



[ 21 ] 







which had begun five years before when the annual had 

published the drawing which is Faulkner's first publica- 

tion this investigation has been able to discover. 



But by this time Faulkner was, of course, not so much 

withdrawing his work from the University of Mississippi's 

amateur publications and their relatively small circle of 

readers as he was moving toward professional publica- 

tion for the larger audience which now, forty years later, 

is world-wide. When the Ole Miss annual was printing 

this last of its drawings by Faulkner, the first of his seven 

contributions to the Double Dealer — the poem titled 

"Portrait" — appeared in the June, 1922, issue of that 

national "little magazine," which was published at New 

Orleans, where Faulkner was later to turn to fiction. 



Though Faulkner had brought out his last University 

poem in the spring of 1921, his concern with poetry was 

to continue for some years: He dated a few unpublished 

poems during his New Orleans months in 1925 and had 

published four in the Double Dealer by the time he left 

New Orleans for Europe on July 7, 1925. Other unpub- 

lished poems are dated on that European trip. In 1926, 

the period immediately following his return, he dated 

more poems, from Pascagoula, Mississippi. After he had 

published major novels he still showed his concern with 

poetry by publishing during 1932 several poems in an 

issue of Contempo which featured his work, and by bring- 

ing out in 1932 and 1933 This Earth and A Green 

Bough, volumes which included revisions of poems he 

had written at the University of Mississippi. 



In December, 1922, the University newspaper pub- 



[ 22 ] 







lished its last essay by Faulkner, a review article center- 

ing on three novels by Joseph Hergesheimer. Interestingly 

— though probably it is only coincidence — the subjects 

of his previous pieces of literary criticism in The Missis- 

sippian had been either poetry or drama while he was de- 

voting his time to writing poems and plays, but now as 

he moved a little closer in time to the novelist he was to 

become, this final Mississippian review was Faulkner's 

only contribution to that newspaper about an author of 

fiction. 



Possibly Faulkner made one more contribution to The 

Mississippian after this review of Hergesheimer. At the 

start of the last year of his postmastership, on January 1 1 , 

1924, the paper carried a large, humorous "advertise- 

ment" for a Bluebird Insurance Company which was 

dedicated to the happiness of students because it would 

protect them in their college courses by insuring them 

"against professors and other failures." This advertise- 

ment and those which followed it purported to have been 

purchased by a company composed of three men: a 

student who had just returned from England where he 

had been at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar; one of Faulk- 

ner's post office assistants, who later would become post- 

master when Faulkner resigned; and Faulkner. Each was 

listed as a "president" of the company. 



The published accounts of Faulkner's life which men- 

tion the Bluebird Insurance Company seem to have as- 

sumed without question that Faulkner invented and de- 

veloped this joke. One cannot with assurance label that 

interpretation wrong, but there is the possibility that much 



[ 23 ] 







— or all? — of this series of advertisements originated in 

the office of The Mississippian and that Faulkner and, 

perhaps, the other two men were drafted as "presidents" 

without their consent or knowledge. Linking the three 

men together as founders of the company may have 

struck the newspaper's staff as funny: When the returned 

Rhodes Scholar, whom a Mississippian news article of 

just this time called "the famous and inimitable," gave a 

talk to the Latin Club of the University about life at Ox- 

ford, England, the reporter described the talk rather dis- 

respectfully, saying it had revealed that at Oxford Uni- 

versity "luncheon was served in one's room and one only 

had to take one's dinner, doncher know, with the jolly 

rabble" and that there one " — can you believe it? — lets 

afternoon tea interfere with a hotly contested cricket 

match." The post office assistant had appeared — pleas- 

antly enough — in a series of Mississippian columns 

which made fun of campus figures and also, along with 

Faulkner and others of the post office force, in an 

illustrated half page of the humor section of the 1922 

Ole Miss which named the post office the "Postgraduate 

Club" with "Hours: 11:20 to 12:20 every Wednesday," 

"Motto: Never put the mail up on time," and "Aim: 

Develop postmasters out of fifty students every year." 

Faulkner's name had appeared on the formal roll of 

the University's "Freshman Literary Class" in the 

1919-1920 Ole Miss as "Falkner, Count William," and 

he had been listed by the humor section of the Ole 

Miss for 1923 as^ "Hardest Worker — Count Falkner" 

in the list of "Superlative Election" results which named 



[ 24 ] 







WE INSURE YOU! 



MAKE OLE MISS A WINTER RESORT! 



Insure yourself against professors and other failures. Let your failures pay 

your way through college. If the professors don't appreciate your brains, 

the co-eds will your money. Laugh at pop-writtens — they mean less pop- 

written checks. 



Girls, TKink of Your Feet! 



Our Foot-Ease Dancing Policy for ladies beats Blue-Jay in stopping that 

after-dance pain. Take out one of our famous policies and then write 

your A. & M. friends to come over. 







Boys, Why Worry? 



If sweetie stands you up, let us be the one to worry. Our Broken-Hearted 

Policy for young men will make you laugh when sheik m?kes a date 

with her ! 



There was once a man who went hunting. When he was a long ways from 

home it began to rain very, very hard. Seeing no other shelter, the man 

crawled into a hollow log and went to sleep. When he awoke the log 

had swollen so that he could not get out. The man felt that his last days 

had come. At once he began to realize he had wasted most of his life 

and had failed to take out that policy when the BLUEBIRD salesman 

called the day before. This made him feel so small that he crawled right 

out of the little end of the log. Moral : Let the BLUEBIRD help you out 

of tight places. 







THE BLUEBIRD INSURANCE CO. 



"We Take Anything" 







James Bell, Jr., President. William Falkner, President 



Louis Jigcetts, President 



Bell-Falkner-Jicgetts, Unlimited, Underwriters 







[ 25 } 







such other involuntary electoral victors as "Most Popu- 

lar Professor" and "Biggest Grouch," and through the 

years he had appeared in the "Hayseed Letters" columns 

of The Mississippian in which the correspondence be- 

tween an imaginary bumpkin at college and his father 

back on the farm at Possum Trot gave the authors of the 

column opportunities to make jokes about students and 

faculty. As one example, in a September 21, 1920, letter 

the son wrote home: "Wei here I am back again at the 

best schule in the world. Me and Blind Jim [an afflicted 

Negro about the campus whom the students sometimes 

adopted as a class officer or unofficial member of the 

University's administration], T. J. Tubb and Hannibal, 

Bill Falkner and Paul Rogers is all here now so school 

can comminct whenever it wants to." Though the "presi- 

dent" of the Bluebird Insurance Company who had been 

a Rhodes Scholar had also been one of the two authors of 

those "Hayseed Letters" with their burlesquing of stu- 

dents and faculty, and though the "president" who was 

an assistant at the post office was listed with the Rhodes 

Scholar among the "Contributors to This Issue" of The 

Mississippian which carried the first Bluebird advertise- 

ment, it seems doubtful that the remaining "president," 

William Faulkner, would strongly have favored publish- 

ing among the defenses of the Company in its advertise- 

ment of February 15 such an item as this: "It is a gross 

injustice to say that President Falkner has permanently 

retired in the Post Office. He merely takes temporary 

naps — during business hours." Faulkner, whose sense of 

humor has clearly demonstrated that it includes himself, 



[ 26 ] 







may have taken part in this series of advertisements, 

which did not end until many months later with a full- 

page notice in the Ole Miss annual; but until firmer evi- 

dence appears either way, admirers of his fiction should 

be kindly allowed at least to assume that if Faulkner did 

voluntarily help work up these Bluebird notices he did 

not write the more flat-footed parts of them, did not favor 

stretching the joke over such a long time, and had nothing 

whatever to do with the news article in the February 15 

Mississippian which announced that the next day the 

campus would start "The Bluebird Game," in which 

"some popular young man," secretly the Bluebird, would 

"carry a striped letter" to deliver "to the first coed" who 

happened to ask whether he was the Bluebird. "The for- 

tunate young lady" would receive a ticket to the movies 

and a Bluebird insurance policy. The first game was to be 

"solely for the coeds. The next solely for the eds." "Isn't 

a ticket to the show worth asking the question? Try it. 

You'll find it fun. Play the Bluebird game." 



Whatever Faulkner's relationship to the Bluebird In- 

surance Company hoax, he had many pleasures in these 

years in addition to his writing. He kept up his practice of 

taking long walks into the countryside, often covering 

twelve or fifteen miles with Phil Stone on a Sunday, and 

sometimes going off on foot for jaunts lasting several 

days. He and his friends enjoyed driving about in his open 

white car, which was named, at least by some of the 

friends, "Snowflake," and must have offered a pleasant, 

and notable, variation in a time still affected by Henry 

Ford's legendary order to give them any color they want 



[ 27 ] 







just so it's black. Faulkner also played golf frequently at 

the University — so competently that near the time of his 

resignation as postmaster he took part in an exhibition 

match with two touring professionals, one from Wiscon- 

sin and one from Indiana, and turned in the best score. 

When the managers of the exhibition passed a hat in the 

audience to collect money for the players to divide among 

themselves, Faulkner elected to remain, in golf, an ama- 

teur. 



Always an athlete, an outdoorsman, and a man effec- 

tively concerned for the welfare of the young, Faulkner 

served during part of this period as scoutmaster of the 

Oxford Boy Scout troop. Former members recall with 

pleasure and admiration that at meetings, on day-long 

outings, and during periods in camp, such as one in late 

August, 1924, at a small lake northwest of Oxford, Wil- 

liam Faulkner created an unusually pleasant atmosphere, 

so that in the complete absence of nervous, shouted adult 

discipline, the boys maintained sense and order and had 

a fine time. One former youth of Oxford, now an im- 

portant scholar, recalls the interest Faulkner was able to 

give a game in which the problem was to creep unde- 

tected through the woods toward a central player, a game 

Faulkner introduced and the boys of Oxford much en- 

joyed. Faulkner himself enjoyed this association and must 

have disliked having to end it, for he obviously was a 

first-rate scoutmaster. 



As postmaster in these years, however, his performance 

apparently left something to be desired. He is said by 

friends to have accepted the job with the greatest reluc- 



[ 28 ] 







tance. And to readers of today there is something prepos- 

terous about the future author of The Sound and the Fury 

and Go Down, Moses making a living sorting other peo- 

ple's Christmas cards. By September 2, 1924, a U.S. Post 

Office inspector with headquarters in Corinth, Missis- 

sippi, had written Faulkner a letter detailing patrons' 

complaints about undelivered letters and packages, his 

reading a great deal instead of maintaining ardent at- 

tendance at the stamp window, and his having in the 

process of publication a book which some patrons 

claimed was written at the post office. The inspector has 

since recalled that Faulkner said he was "glad the Post 

Office sent someone who had a sense of humor and 

realized what a 'hell of a job' " it was. At the end of 

October, 1924, after almost three years at the post office, 

Faulkner resigned and the next day in a moving letter to 

a friend reported that it was pleasant to be completely 

free again to write and that he intended never again to be 

so trapped no matter what the consequences. A few 

weeks later, on December 26, 1924, when The Marble 

Faun had been published, Faulkner gave a copy to the 

Post Office inspector, inscribed to him as one "to whose 

friendship I owe extrication from a very unpleasant situ- 

ation." 



About mid-October Faulkner may have begun plan- 

ning his departure from the post office, from the Univer- 

sity, and from Mississippi. If so, his poem titled "Missis- 

sippi Hills: My Epitaph," which survives in manuscripts 

dated October 17, 1924, and was much revised later for 

the booklet published as This Earth and for A Green 



[ 30 ] 







Bough, has additional poignance. In mid-December, 

1924, his first book, The Marble Faun, was published in 

Boston, a volume of poems dedicated to the poet's 

mother; with a preface dated "September 23, 1924" 

written by Phil Stone, who had been instrumental in ar- 

ranging for its publication; and bearing at its end, as a 

date line for the composition of the poems, "April, May, 

June, 1 91 9." Some of Stone's prefatory — and prophetic 

— comments about the poetry in The Marble Faun also 

apply to many of Faulkner's early poems which are being 

reprinted here: 



They are the poems of youth. . . . They belong inevitably 

to that period of uncertainty and illusion. . . . They also 

have the defects of youth — youth's impatience, unsophisti- 

cation and immaturity. They have youth's sheer joy . . . 

and youth's sudden, vague, unreasoned sadness over nothing 

at all. ... I think these poems show promise. They have 

an unusual feeling for words and the music of words, a love 

of soft vowels, an instinct for color and rhythm, and — at 

times — a hint of coming muscularity of wrist ... a man 

who has real talent will grow, will leave these things behind, 

will finally bring forth a flower that could have grown in no 

garden but his own. 



Immediately after the publication of The Marble Faun, 

the New Orleans Times-Picayune, under the headline, 

"Author Goes to Europe," and under the date line, "Uni- 

versity, Miss., Dec. 16," announced: 



William Falkner, author of "The Marble Faun," which he 

recently received from his New York publisher, is preparing 

to leave the University of Mississippi campus for England 

and Italy, where he will spend the winter months in study. 



[ 31 ] 







Young Falkner is expecting also to complete a number of 

poems started in this country. 



But when Faulkner reached New Orleans to take a ship 

he postponed the trip and settled in the city's French 

Quarter for several important months in which he 

changed from a writer who had expected to continue, as 

in his University years, to devote his energy to poetry into 

a writer who was to give his energy during the next decades 

to fiction — and with magnificent results. It was in New 

Orleans that Faulkner almost at once began writing 

sketches for the Double Dealer and for the Picayune, the 

first fiction for which he had received payment; and 

within a few months of his arrival at New Orleans he had 

completed Soldiers' Pay, the first of his many novels. 



During his months in New Orleans Faulkner returned 

from time to time to the University of Mississippi, where, 

in addition to dating the manuscript of an unpublished 

poem from there on February 26, 1925, he took some 

part in the production of a University humor magazine 

called The Scream, being officially listed on the staff in 

1925 as one of the art editors. Associates remember that 

he possibly made designs and drawings for another humor 

magazine, but whether he did or not remains uncertain 

and the drawings have not come to light. In May, 1925, 

a few weeks before he left New Orleans for Europe, The 

Scream printed three pieces of work which are the last 

this investigation has found signed by Faulkner in any 

University of Mississippi publication. Just as his first three 

signed contributions had been eight years before, these 

three were drawings. 



[ 32 ] 







But Faulkner's connection with The Scream was not 

quite over with their publication or even with the publi- 

cation the next autumn of an unsigned drawing showing a 

man dangling outside an airplane in death drag acro- 

batics which seems to be in Faulkner's style. Not until 

May of 1927, when he had already published his second 

novel, did the staff of The Scream, financially pressed and 

appreciative of his draftsmanship, cut in half their 1925 

plate of his drawing showing two men watching three 

women boarding a streetcar and print the parts as illus- 

trations of two jokes, to end by a kind of amitosis the 

series of contributions to University of Mississippi publi- 

cations which William Faulkner had begun in 1917. 







[ 33 ] 







William Faulkner: 

Early Prose and Poetry 









I'M^R 







[ 36 ] 









[ 37 ] 







L'Apres-Midi d'un Faune 



I follow through the singing trees 

Her streaming clouded hair and face 

And lascivious dreaming knees 

Like gleaming water from some place 

Of sleeping streams, or autumn leaves 

Slow shed through still, love-wearied air. 

She pauses: and as one who grieves 

Shakes down her blown and vagrant hair 

To veil her face, but not her eyes — 

A hot quick spark, each sudden glance, 

Or like the wild brown bee that flies 

Sweet winged, a sharp extravagance 

Of kisses on my limbs and neck. 

She whirls and dances through the trees 

That lift and sway like arms and fleck 

Her with quick shadows, and the breeze 

Lies on her short and circled breast. 

Now hand in hand with her I go, 

The green night in the silver west 

Of virgin stars, pale row on row 

Like ghostly hands, and ere she sleep 

The dusk will take her by some stream 

In silent meadows, dim and deep — 

In dreams of stars and dreaming dream. 



I have a nameless wish to go 

To some far silent midnight noon 



[ 39 } 







Where lonely streams whisper and flow 

And sigh on sands blanched by the moon, 

And blond limbed dancers whirling past, 

The senile worn moon staring through 

The sighing trees, until at last, 

Their hair is powdered bright with dew. 

And their sad slow limbs and brows 

Are petals drifting on the breeze 

Shed from the fingers of the boughs; 

Then suddenly on all of these, 

A sound like some great deep bell stroke 

Falls, and they dance, unclad and cold — 

It was the earth's great heart that broke 

For springs before the world grew old. 



WILLIAM FAULKNER. 







[ 40 







CATHAY. 







Sharp sands, those blind desert horsemen, sweep 



Where yesterday tall shining carvels 



Swam in thy golden past. What Fate foretells 



That now the winds go lightly, lest thy sleep 



Be broken? Where once thy splendors rose, 



And cast their banners bright against the sky, 



Now go the empty years infinitely 



Rich with thy ghosts. So is it: who sows 



The seed of Fame, makes the grain for Death to reap. 



Wanderers, with faces sharp as spears, 



And flocks and herds on aimless muffled feet 



Drift where glittering kings went through each street 



Of thy white vanished cities, and the years 



Have closed like walls behind them. Still 



Through the spawn of lesser destinies, 



We stare, where once thy stars burned, lest like these, 



We lose faith. They know thee not, nor will 



To see thy magic empire when the Hand 



Thrusts back the curtain of the shifting sand, 



On singing stars and lifting golden hill. 



William Falkner, 

University Mississippi. 



[ 41 ] 







LANDING IN LUCK. 

By William Falkner. 







The machine levelled off and settled on the aerodrome. 

It turned and taxied back and stopped, headed into the 

wind again, its engine running idle. The instructor in the 

forward cockpit faced about and raised his goggles. 



"Fairish," he said, "not so bad. How many hours have 

you had?" 



Cadet Thompson, a "barracks ace," who had just 

made a fairly creditable landing, assumed an expression 

of assured confidence. 



"Seven hours and nine minutes, sir." 



"Think you can — hold that stick back, will you? — 

think you can take her round alone?" 



"Yes, sir," he answered as he had answered at least 

four times a day for the last three days, with the small 

remaining part of his unconquered optimism in his voice. 

The instructor climbed slowly out onto the lower wing, 

then to the ground, stretching his legs. He got a cigarette 

from his clothes after a fashion resembling sleight-of- 

hand. 



[ 42 ] 







"You've got to solo some day. The C. O. gave us all a 

raggin' last night. It's chaps like you that give this stage 

such a name for inefficiency. Here you have had seven 

hours, and yet you never know if you are goin' to land on 

this aerodrome or down at Borden. And then you always 

pick a house or another machine to land on. What ever 

brought you to think you could fly? Swear I don't know 

what to do with you. Let you try it and break your neck, 

cr recommend you for discharge. Get rid of you either 

way, and a devilish good thing, too." 



A silence hung heavily about Thompson's unhappy 

head. The instructor, sucking his cigarette, stared off 

across the aerodrome, where other wild and hardy ama- 

teurs took off, landed and crashed. A machine descended 

tail high, levelled off too soon and landed in a series of 

bumps like an inferior tennis ball. 



"See that chap there? He's probably had half your 

time but he makes landings alone. But you, you cut your 

gun and sit up there like a blind idiot and when you con- 

descend to dive the bus, you try your best to break our 

necks, yours and mine too; and I'll say right now, that's 

somethin' none of you rockin' chair aviators is goin' to 

do. Well, it's your neck or my reputation, now. Take her 

off, and what ever you do, keep your nose down." 



Thompson pulled down his goggles. He had been 

angry enough to kill his officer for the better part of a 

week, so added indignities rested but lightly upon him. 

He was a strange mixture of fear and pride as he opened 

the throttle wide and pushed the stick forward — fear 



[43 ] 







that he would wreck the machine landing, and pride that 

he was on his own at last. He was no physical coward, 

his fear was that he would show himself up before his 

less fortunate friends to whom he had talked largely of 

spins and side slips and gliding angles. 



All-in-all, he was in no particularly safe frame of mind 

for his solo flight. He gained speed down the field. The 

tail was off the ground now and Thompson, more or less 

nervous, though he had taken the machine off like a 

veteran with the instructor aboard, pulled the stick back 

before the machine had gained speed sufficient to rise. 

It lurched forward and the tail sank heavily, losing more 

speed. He knew that he had gone too far down the field 

and should turn back and take off again, so he closed the 

throttle. When the noise of the engine ceased he heard the 

instructor shouting at him, and the splutter of a motor 

cycle. Sending after him, were they? Cadet Thompson 

was once more cleanly angry. He jerked the throttle 

open. 



His subconscious mind had registered a cable across 

the end of the field, and he had flown enough to know 

that it was touch and go as to whether he would clear 

it. He was afraid of rising too soon again and he knew 

that he would not stop in time were he to close the 

throttle now. So, his eyes on the speed indicator, he pulled 

the stick back. The motion at once became easier and he 

climbed as much as he dared. 



A shock; he closed his eyes, expecting to go over and 

down on his back in the road below. When nothing hap- 

pened he ventured a frightened hurried glance. Below him 



[ 44 1 







was the yellow of a wheat field and the aerodrome far to 

the rear. 



So the cable had broken! Must have, for here he was 

still going forward. His altimeter showed two hundred 

feet. Thompson felt like shouting. Now he'd show 'em 

what flying was. Rotten, was he? He'd pull a perfect land- 

ing and walk up to that officer and tell him just what kind 

of a poor fish he was. 



"Blasted Englishman," he said, "thinks he's the only 

man in this wing who can really fly. Bet if he'd a' hit that 

cable he'd a' been on his back in that road, right now. 

Wish t'hell he was." 



He made his turn carefully. Below at the edge of the 

aerodrome stood the ambulance, its crew gaping foolishly 

at him. "Like fish," he thought, "like poor fish." He 

leaned out of his cockpit and gestured pleasantly at them, 

a popular gesture known to all peoples of the civilized 

world. 



Eight hundred feet. "High enough," he decided, and 

made another circle, losing height. He picked his spot 

on the field. "Now," he thought, cut the throttle and 

pushed the stick forward. He found a good gliding angle, 

wires singing, engine idle and long flames wrapping back 

from the exhausts. The field was filled with people run- 

ning about and flapping their arms. Another machine rose 

to meet him. He opened the throttle and closed it again, 

a warning. "Why'n the hell don't they get off and lemme 

land?" he wondered. 



The other machine passed him in a long bank, its oc- 

cupants shouting at him; one of them carried something 



[ 45 ] 







to which he gestured and pointed frantically. Thompson 

came out of his dive. They circled again and he saw that 

the object was about the size and shape of a wheel? 

A wheel from the landing gear of a machine. What kind 

of a joke was this? Why had they brought a wheel up to 

show him? He'd seen lots of wheels. Had two on his ma- 

chine — on his machine — wheels? Then Thompson 

remembered the cable. He had stripped a wheel on that 

cable, then. There was nothing else it could mean. His 

brain assimilated this fact calmly. Having lost a wheel, he 

had nothing to land on. Therefore it were quite point- 

less to bother about landing, immediately, anyway. So he 

circled off and climbed, followed cautiously by the other 

machine, like two strange dogs meeting. 



"Sir," said an orderly, entering the mess where the 

C. O. and three lesser lights were playing bridge, "sir, the 

Flight Commander, B Flight, reports that a cadet is 

abaht to crash." 



" 'Crash?' " repeated the C. O. 



"Out 'ere, sir. Yes, sir, 'e 'assn't got no landing gear." 



" 'No landing gear?' What's this? What's this?" 



"Yes, sir. 'E wiped it orf a-taking orf, sir. 'E's abaht 

out of petrol and the Flight Commander says 'e'll be 

a-coming down soon, sir." 



"My word," said the C. O., going to the door and 

closely followed by the others. 



"There 'e is, sir, that's 'im in front." 



"My word," said the C. O. again and went off toward 

the hangars at a very good gait. 



[ 46 ] 







"What's this? What's this?" Approaching the group of 

officers. 



"Cadet Thompson, sir," volunteered one, "Mr. 

Bessing's cadet. Oh, Bessing!" 



Bessing came over, lifting his feet nervously. 



"What's all this, Mr. Bessing?" The C. O. watched him 

narrowly. An instructor gets a bad name when his cadet 

crashes, he is responsible for the cadet's life as well as the 

machine. 



"Rotten take off, sir. He tried to rise too soon, and 

when he failed, instead of comin' back and tryin' again, 

he carried right on. Struck that cable and lost his right 

wheel and he's been sittin' up there ever since. We sent 

another chap up to pull him up a bit. He's almost out of 

petrol and he'll have to come down soon." 



"H-m. Didn't send him up too soon, did you, Mr. 

Bessing?" 



"Chap's had seven hours, sir," he protested, and pro- 

duced Thompson's card. 



The C. O. studied it a moment, then returned it. 



"Wharton, sir?" He helped the C. O. to a light and lit 

a cigarette for himself. 



"Good lad, good lad," said the C. O., shading his 

eyes as he stared into the sky. "Something in you people 

at this wing, though. Cadets and officers both. N. C. O.'s 

got it, too. G. O. C. gave me a jolly raggin' not a fortnight 

ago. Do something. Do something, swear I will." 



The drone from the engines above suddenly ceased. 

Thompson was out of petrol at last. The two machines 



[ 47 ] 







descended in a wide spiral, and they on the earth stood 

watching him as he descended, as utterly beyond any 

human aid as though he were on another planet. 



"Here they come," Bessing muttered half aloud. "If 

he only remembers to land on his left wing — the fool, 

oh, the blind, bounding fool!" 



For Thompson's nerve was going as he neared the 

earth. The temptation was strong to kick his rudder over 

and close his eyes. The machine descended, barely re- 

taining headway. He watched the approaching ground 

utterly unable to make any pretence of levelling off, para- 

lyzed; his brain had ceased to function, he was all staring 

eyes watching the remorseless earth. He did not know 

his height, the ground rushed past too swiftly to judge, 

but he expected to crash any second. Thompson's fate 

was on the laps of the Gods. 



The tail touched, bounded, scraped again. The left 

wing was low and the wing tip crumpled like paper. A 

tearing of fabric, a strut snapped, and he regained do- 

minion over his limbs, but too late to do anything — were 

there anything to be done. The machine struck again, 

solidly, slewed around and stood on its nose. 



Bessing was the first to reach him. 



"Lord, Lord!" he was near weeping from nervous ten- 

sion. "Are you all right? Never expected you'd come 

through, never expected it! Didn't think to see you alive! 

Don't ever let anyone else say you can't fly. Comin' out 

of that was a trick many an old flyer couldn't do! I say, 

are you all right?" 







48 







Hanging face downward from the cockpit, Cadet 

Thompson looked at Bessing, surprised at the words of 

this cold, short tempered officer. He forgot the days of 

tribulation and insult in this man's company, and his 

recent experience, and his eyes filled with utter adora- 

tion. Then he became violently ill. 



That night Thompson sat gracefully on a table in 

the writing room of a down town hotel, tapping a boot 

with his stick and talking to sundry companions. 



" — and so, when my petrol gave out, I knew it was 

up to me. I had already thought of a plan — I thought 

of several, but this one seemed the best — which was to 

put my tail down first and then drop my left wing, so 

the old bus wouldn't turn over and lie down on me. Well, 

it worked just as I had doped it out, only a ditch those 

fool A. M.'s had dug right across the field, mind you, 

tripped her up and she stood on her nose. I had thought 

of that, too, and pulled my belt up. Bessing said — he's 

a pretty good scout — " 



"Ah-h-h — " they jeered him down profanely. 



"Look at the nerve he's got, will you?" 



"He'—" 



"Ah, we know you! Why, the poor bum crashed on 

his solo, and listen at the line he's giving us!" 



"Well, Bessing said — " 



"Bessing said! Bessing said! Go tell the G.O.C. what 

Bessing said!" 



"Dammit, don't I know what Bessing said? Ask him! 

That's all. You're a bunch of poor hams that think you 



[ 49 ] 







can fly! Why, I got an hour and a half solo time. You 

poor fish. Ask Bessing! there's a guy that knows what's 

what." 



He flung out of the room. They watched him with 

varying expressions. 



"Say," spoke one, a cadet but recently enlisted and 

still in ground school: "D' you think he really did all 

that? He must be pretty good." 



"That guy? That guy fly? He's so rotten they can't 

discharge him. Every time he goes up they have to get 

a gun and shoot him down. He's the T out of flying. 

Biggest liar in the R.A.F." 



Thompson passed through again, with Bessing, and 

his arm was through the officer's. He was deep in discus- 

sion evidently, but he looked up in time to give them a 

cheerfully condescending: 



"Hello, you chaps." 







[ 50 ] 







SAPPHICS. 







So it is : sleep comes not on my eyelids. 

Nor in my eyes, with shaken hair and white 

Aloof pale hands, and lips and breasts of iron, 

So she beholds me. 



And yet though sleep comes not to me, there comes 

A vision from the full smooth brow of sleep, 

The white Aphrodite moving unbounded 

By her own hair. 



In the purple beaks of the doves that draw her, 

Beaks straight without desire, necks bent backward 

Toward Lesbos and the flying feet of Loves 

Weeping behind her. 



She looks not back, she looks not back to where 

The nine crowned muses about Apollo 

Stand like nine Corinthian columns singing 

In clear evening. 



She sees not the Lesbians kissing mouth 

To mouth across lute strings, drunken with singing, 

Nor the white feet of the Oceanides 

Shining and unsandalled. 



[ 51 ] 







Before her go cryings and lamentations 

Of barren women, a thunder of wings, 

While ghosts of outcast Lethean women, lamenting, 

Stiffen the twilight. 



William Falkner, 

University, Miss. 







[ 52 ] 







AFTER FIFTY YEARS. 







Her house is empty and her heart is old, 

And filled with shades and echoes that deceive 

No one save her, for still she tries to weave 

With blind bent fingers, nets that cannot hold. 

Once all men's arms rose up to her, 'tis told, 

And hovered like white birds for her caress: 

A crown she could have had to bind each tress 

Of hair, and her sweet arms the Witches' Gold. 



Her mirrors know her whiteness, for there 

She rose in dreams from other dreams that lent 

Her softness as she stood, crowned with soft hair. 

And with his bound heart and his young eyes bent 

And blind, he feels her presence like shed scent, 

Holding him body and life within its snare. 



W. FAULKNER. 







[ 53 ] 







UNE BALLADE DES FEMMES PERDUES 



'Mais ou sont les neiges d'antan' 



I sing in the green dusk 



Fatuously 



Of ladies that I have loved 



— £a ne fait rien! Helas, vraiment, vraiment 



Gay little ghosts of loves in silver sandals 

They dance with quick feet on my lute strings 

With the abandon of boarding school virgins 

While unbidden moths 

Amorous of my white seraglio 

Call them with soundless love songs 

A sort of ethereal seduction 



They hear, alas 



My women 



And brush my lips with little ghostly kisses 



Stealing away 



Singly, their tiny ardent faces 



Like windflowers from some blown garden of dreams 



To their love nights among the roses 



I am old, and alone 

And the star dust from their wings 

Has dimmed my eyes 

I sing in the green dusk 



Of lost ladies — Si vraiment charmant, charmant. 



— W. Falkner. 



[ 54 1 







NAIADS' SONG. 







Come ye sorrowful and keep 



Tryst with us here in wedded sleep, 



The silent noon lies over us 



And shaken ripples cover us, 



Our arms are soft as is the stream. 



Come keep with us our slumbrous dream 



Disheartened ones, if ye are sad, 



If ye are in a garment clad 



Of sorrow, come with us to sleep 



In undulations dim and deep; 



Where sunlight spreads and quivering lies 



To draw in golden reveries 



Its fingers through our glistered hair, 



Finding profound contentment there. 



Come ye sorrowful and weep 



No more in waking, come and steep 



Yourselves in us as does the bee 



Plunge in the rose that, singing, he 



Has opened. Here our mouths unfold 



As does a flower bare its gold; 



Our mouths are soft as any rose 



That in a high walled garden grows, 



A garden level as a cup 



With the sunlight that fills it up. 



[ 55 ] 







Come ye sorrowful and sleep 



Within our arms beneath the sweep 



Of winds that whisper in the trees, 



And boughs that whisper to the breeze 



In a sad extravagance 



Of dancers in a hushed dance; 



When Pan sighs and his pipes doth blow 



While sky above and earth below 



Stand still and hearken to his strain, 



And sigh also as does the rain 



Through woodland lanes remote and cool 



To dream upon a leafed pool. 



Come ye sorrowful and keep 

Tryst with us here in wedded sleep, 

Our eyes are soft as twilit streams, 

Our breasts are soft as silken dreams 

And white at dusk; our breasts the beds 

On which we soothe all aching heads, 

Binding each in a scented tress 

Till glides he in forgetfulness, 

While the night sighs and whispers by 

Sowing stars across the sky. 

Come ye sorrowful and keep 

Here in unmeasured dream and sleep. 



— W. FALKNER. 







[ 56 







(: \jO I O ■ tXfOLA 



FANTOCHES. 



a Paul Verlaine. 







Scaramouches and Pucinella 

Cast one shadow on the mellow 

Night, and kiss against the sky 



And the doctor of Bogona 



In his skull cap and kimono 



Seeks for simples with pale avid eye 



While his daughter half naked 

Glides trembling from her narrow bed 

To meet her lover waiting in the moon 



Her lover from the Spanish Main 

Whose passion thrills her with a strain 

La lune ne garde aucune rancune 



W. FALKNER. 







[ 57 ] 







CLAIR DE LUNE. 

From PAUL VERLAINE. 







Your soul is a lovely garden, and go 

There masque and bergamasque charmingly, 

Playing the lute and dancing and also 

Sad beneath their disguising fanchise.* 



All are singing in a minor key 



Of conqueror love and life opportune, 



Yet seem to doubt their joyous revelry 



As their song melts in the light of the moon. 



In the calm moonlight, so lovely fair 

That makes the birds dream in the slender trees, 

While fountains dream among the statues there; 

Slim fountains sob in silver ecstasies. 



— W. FALKNER. 



: See Notes on the Text, page 128. 







[ 58 ] 







STREETS. 

FROM PAUL VERLAINE. 



Dance the Jig! 



I loved her pretty eyes 



Fairer than starry skies 



And bright with malicious subtleties 



Dance the Jig! 



She had those dainty airs 



That fill poor hearts with tears 



Ah, how truly charming were her airs 



Dance the Jig! 



But this solace is mine 



To kiss her mouth and find 



That now to her my heart is deaf and blind 



Dance the Jig! 



Her face will ever be 

In my mind's infinity 

She broke the coin and gave it half to me 



Dance the Jig! 



— W. FALKNER. 



[ 59 1 







A POPLAR. 







Why do you shiver there 



Between the white river and the road? 



You are not cold, 



With the sun light dreaming about you; 



And yet you lift your pliant supplicating arms as though 



To draw clouds from the sky to hide your slenderness. 



You are a young girl 



Trembling in the throes of ecstatic modesty, 



A white objective girl 



Whose clothing has been forcibly taken away from her. 



— W. FALKNER. 







[ 60 







A CLYMENE. 



(From Paul Verlaine.) 







Mystical chords 

Songs without words 

Dearest, because your eyes 

Color of the skies. 



Because your voice estranges 

My vision, and deranges 

And troubles the horizon 

Of my reason. 



Because your hidden slightness 

Like a swan's graceful whiteness 

Has filled my soul's room 

With your perfume. 



Because all of my being 

In my breathing and seeing 

Is a lingering like flowers 

Of your hours. 



A nimbus that dances 

In my heart and entrances, 

So shall it ever be 

Through infinity. 







W. FALKNER. 



[ 61 ] 







STUDY. 







Somewhere a slender voiceless breeze will go 

Unlinking the shivering poplars' arms, and brakes 

With sleeves simply crossed where waters flow; 

A sunless stream quiet and deep, that slakes 

The thirsty alders pausing there at dawn. 

(Hush, now, hush. Where was I? Jonson) 



Somewhere a candle's guttering gold 

Weaves a tapestry upon a cottage wall 

And her gold hair, simple fold on fold, 

While I can think of nothing else at all 

Except the sunset in her eyes' still pool. 

(Work, work, you fool! — ) 



Somewhere a blackbird lost within a wood 

Whistles through its golden wired throat; 

Some ways are white with birches in a hood 

Of silver shaken by his mellow note, 

Trembling gaspingly as though in fear; 

Where the timid violet first appear. 



(Muted dreams for them, for me 

Bitter science. Exams are near 

And my thoughts uncontrollably 

Wander, and I cannot hear 



[ 62 ] 







The voice telling me that work I must, 



For everything will be the same when I am dead 



A thousand years. I wish I were a bust 



All head.) 



— W. FALKNER. 







[ 63 ] 







ALMA MATER. 







All our eyes and hearts look up to thee, 

For here all our voiceless dreams are spun 

Between thy walls, quiet in dignity 

Lent by the spirits of them whose lives begun 

Within thy portals. Through them we can see 

Upon the mountain top the shining sun 

Success, drawing us infinitely 

Upwardly, until Life and Task are one. 



The beginning, not the end, is this. 



Onward, by her unremitting grace 



With memories that nothing can efface 



Throned securely in our hearts; to kiss 



— Holding, and held by her in fond embrace - 



At parting, her kind calmly dreaming face. 



— W. FALKNER. 







[ 64 ] 









proaiyzdndu 



f. " 









[ 66 } 









L« QK»n4 Acwicam* Parlei-vcui An<jlait. wamttlli I 



L<X pelilc Fvancaitt- /V\au oo«. /»'fcHur, un p«u; Do you lofe ■»« ? K**t *e oute'*! Oa^n! ' ?l| 







[ 67 ] 







>Sociv\l -Activities 









68 









P e 8J3lue 







[ 69 







To a Co-ed 







The dawn herself could not more beauty wear 

Than you 'mid other women crowned in grace, 

Nor have the sages known a fairer face 

Than yours, gold-shadowed by your bright sweet hair. 

Than you does Venus seem less heavenly fair; 

The twilit hidden stillness of your eyes, 

And throat, a singing bridge of still replies, 

A slender bridge, yet all dreams hover there. 



I could have turned unmoved from Helen's brow, 

Who found no beauty in their Beatrice; 

Their Thais seemed less lovely then as now, 

Though some had bartered Athens for her kiss. 

For down Time's arras, faint and fair and far, 

Your face still beckons like a lonely star. 



W. Falkner. 







[ 70 ] 







BOOKS AND THINGS 







We are presenting this week a review by William S. 

[sic] Falkner of "In April Once" by W. A. Percy, Yale 

University Press; later we shall give a discussion of some 

of the poets who are representative of the spirit of the 

present in the form and content of their verse. 



In April Once by W. A. Percy 

Mr. Percy is a native Mississippian, a graduate of the 

University of the South and of the Harvard Law School. 

He was a member of the Belgian Relief Commission in 

the early days of the war, then served as a lieutenant 

attached to the 37th Division. He now lives in Green- 

ville. 



Mr. Percy — like alas! how many of us — suffered the 

misfortune of having been born out of his time. He should 

have lived in Victorian England and gone to Italy with 

Swinburne, for like Swinburne, he is a mixture of pas- 

sionate adoration of beauty and as passionate a despair 

and disgust with its manifestations and accessories in the 

human race. His muse is Latin in type — poignant ecsta- 

sies of lyrical extravagance and a short lived artificial 

strength achieved at the cost of true strength in beauty. 



[ 71 ] 







Beauty, to him, is almost jike physical pain, evident in the 

simplicity of this poem which is the nearest perfect thing 

in the book — 



I heard a bird at break of day 



Sing from the autumn trees 

A song so mystical and calm, 



So full of certainties, 

No man, I think, could listen long 



Except upon his knees. 

Yet this was but a simple bird 



Alone, among dead trees. 



The influence of the frank pagan beauty worship of 

the past is heavily upon him, he is like a little boy closing 

his eyes against the dark of modernity which threatens 

the bright simplicity and the colorful romantic pageantry 

of the middle ages with which his eyes are full. One can 

imagine him best as a violinist who became blind about 

the time Mozart died, it would seem that the last thing 

he saw with his subjective intellect was Browning standing 

in naive admiration before his own mediocrity, of which 

Mr. Percy's "Epistle from Corinth" is the fruit. This is 

far and away the best thing in the book, and would have 

been better except for the fact that Mr. Percy, like every 

man who has ever lived, is the victim of his age. 



As a whole, the book sustains its level of lyrical beauty. 

Occasionally it becomes pure vowelization, for it is not 

always the word that Mr. Percy seeks, but the sound. 

There is one element that will tend more than anything 

else to help it oblivionward, this is the section devoted 

to war poems. How many, many, many reams of paper 



[ 72 ] 







that have been ruined with poetry appertaining to the late 

war no one, probably, will ever know, yet still the 

nightingales wear swords and Red Cross brassards. 



Mr. Percy has not written a great book, — there is too 

much music in it for that, he is a violinist with an inferior 

instrument — yet (and most unusual as modern books 

of poetry go) the gold outweighs the dross. How much, 

I would not undertake to say, for he is a difficult person 

to whom to render justice; like Swinburne, he obscures 

the whole mental horizon, one either likes him passion- 

ately or one remains forever cold to him. 







[ 73 ] 







BOOKS & THINGS 



Turns and Movies. 

By Conrad Aiken. Houghton Mifflin Company. 







In the fog generated by the mental puberty of contem- 

porary American versifiers while writing inferior Keats 

or sobbing over the middle west, appears one rift of 

heaven sent blue — the poems of Conrad Aiken. He, 

alone of the entire yelping pack, seems to have a definite 

goal in mind. The others — there are perhaps half a 

dozen exceptions — are so many loud sounds lost in a 

single depth of privet hedge; the others lay about them 

lustily with mouth open and eyes closed, some in more or 

less impenetrable thickets of Browningesque obscurity, 

others hopelessly mired in the swamps of mediocrity, and 

all are creating a last flurry before darkness kindly en- 

gulfs them. 



Many of them have realized that aesthetics is as much 

a science as chemistry, that there are certain definite 

scientific rules which, when properly applied, will pro- 

duce great art as surely as certain chemical elements, 

combined in the proper proportions, will produce certain 

reactions; yet Mr. Aiken alone has made any effort to 

discover them and apply them intelligently. Nothing is 



[ 74 ] 







ever accidental with him, he has most happily escaped 

our national curse of filling each and every space, reli- 

gious, physical, mental and moral, and beside him the 

British nightingales, Mr. Vachel Lindsay with his tin 

pan and iron spoon, Mr. Kreymborg with his lithographic 

water coloring, and Mr. Carl Sandburg with his senti- 

mental Chicago propaganda are so many puppets fum- 

bling in windy darkness. 



Mr. Aiken has a plastic mind, he uses variation, in- 

version, change of rhythm and such metrical tricks with 

skillful effect, and his clear impersonality will never per- 

mit him to write poor verse. He is never a press agent as 

are so many of his contemporaries. It is rather difficult to 

quote an example from him, as he has written with cer- 

tain musical forms in mind, and any division of his work 

corresponding to the accepted dimensions of a poem is 

as a single chord to a fugue; yet the three quatrains from 

Discordants: 



Music I heard with you was more than music, 

And bread I broke with you was more than bread; 

Now that I am without you, all is desolate; 

All that was once so beautiful is dead. 



Your hands once touched this table and this silver, 

And I have seen your fingers hold this glass. 

These things do not remember you, beloved, — 

And yet your touch upon them will not pass. 



For it was in my heart you moved among them, 

And blessed them with your hands and with your eyes; 

And in my heart they will remember always, — 

They knew you once, O beautiful and wise. 



[ 75 ] 







This is one of the most beautifully, impersonally sin- 

cere poems of all time. 



The most interesting phase of Mr. Aiken's work is 

his experiments with an abstract three dimensional verse 

patterned on polyphonic music form: The Jig of Forslin 

and The House of Dust. This is interesting because of 

the utterly unlimited possibilities of it, he has the whole 

world before him; for as yet no one has made a successful 

attempt to synthesize musical reactions with abstract 

documentary reactions. Miss Amy Lowell tried a poly- 

phonic prose which, in spite of the fact that she has cre- 

ated some delightful statuettes of perfectly blown glass, 

is merely a literary flatulency; and it has left her, reed in 

hand, staring in naive surprise at the air whence her 

bubbles have burst. 



Mr. Aiken has never been haphazard, he has devel- 

oped steadily, never for a moment at a loss, yet it is al- 

most impossible to discover where his initial impulse 

came from. At times it seems that he is completing a 

cycle back to the Greeks, again there seem to be faint 

traces of the French symbolists, scattered through his 

poems are bits of soft sonority that Masefield might have 

formed; and so at last one returns to the starting point 

— from where did he come, and where is he going? It is 

interesting to watch, for — say in fifteen years — when 

the tide of aesthetic sterility which is slowly engulfing us 

has withdrawn, our first great poet will be left. Perhaps 

he is the man. 



W. FALKNER. 



[ 76 ] 







CO-EDUCATION AT OLE MISS. 







Ernest says, to Ernestine — 

Thou art my little queen — O, 



Thou art the girl 



Of all the world 

Who makes my heart beat mean — O; 



For night and day 



When thou art away, 

Thy fair face fills my bean — O, 



An lov'st thou me 



As I love thee, 

Let's off to Gretna Green — O. 



W. FALKNER. 







[ 77 ] 









riSH. PLECH, fQWL 







[ 78 ] 







A.E.F: CLUB 



THIHK HOW MAflY TIMES THIS BIRD'S 



beeh meeED. he got a <?rcix 



DE GuERrrt with PAlff\S. 









[ 79 ] 









MRRI0HLTTE3 







[ SO 







MOCTURWC. 



LoloMbine lean& aUc Ine Japei- jlaMe : 



C oloMbine |lma<j a toit. 



One |linci2 a eevei-ed hand ai Ren-oj'e {eel. 



Benind, a pei-pindiculqr wall of zWsj 

Delow ) a alea/u o| enow?,. 



rierrol tpmz and whirL, heci-of \z jleetj 



\~]e whirl?, ni£ nandc like Dirde, upon +ne /noon. 







rierrot cpme and wmrlt .... 

His eyes, are jillea wilh|acet& oi Many woj-lds 

Ol eil vel ' anc * ^' ue an< J qreen ; 

Find he would hide his head, yet Ine keen 

blue qavkne&o 



Cuts nie ar/we, away |wm nis jace. 







_ i elcn ! fl violin 



freezes injo a blade, eo bnaU and J^n 

t piercee lliroucjn he Li-ain, info |,, e UqJ 



ep-lled Ly a p, a of *u 2 , c on (Le aU. 







'Rnd h. 







e i6 epined 







Swift -the wiepg o| wolion blown aci-oed the /vtoon • 



ColoMbine jlinae a paper rose, — 



Pierrot jliic like a while Mollj on tlue da^. 







Black -Ike lapei-j chai-p (heir Afoulhg, m efcu-dqU 

Tne sky will icy rooHeee. |lowe»-e aaun+ly q(ow?,. 

Ttay ate etilfly Wen, phcjM and elq.^. 







BOOKS & THINGS 



Aria da Capo: a Play in One Act, by Edna St. 

Vincent Millay. 







Something new enough to be outstanding in this age 

of mental puberty, this loud gesturing of the aesthetic 

messiahs of our emotional Valhalla who have one eye on 

the ball and the other on the grandstand. In newspaper 

parlance Miss Millay might be said to have scored a 

'beat'; truly so in the sense that her contemporaries (those 

of them who will ever become aware that she has done 

something 'different') will each wonder to himself why 

he or she did not think of it first, which is very natural. 

Here is an idea so simple that it does give to wonder why 

under heaven no one has thought of it before. Its sim- 

plicity is doubtless the reason. 



The play is a slight thing in itself; the surprising fresh- 

ness of the idea of a pastoral tragedy enacted and con- 

cluded by interlopers against a conventional background 

of paper streamers and colored confetti in the midst of a 

thoroughly artificial Pierrot and Columbine suite alone 

makes it worth a second glance. Yet, this is an unjust 

statement; for about all modern playwrights and versifiers 



[ 84 ] 







offer us is a sterile clashing of ideas innocent of imagina- 

tion; a species of emotional shorthand. Aria da Capo 

possesses more than a clever idea skilfully carried out, 

yet it is difficult to put the hand on just what makes it 

go; there is no unusual depth of experience, either mental 

or physical, to be traced from it other than those charac- 

teristics acquired without conscious effort by every young 

writer, from the reading done during the period of his 

mental development, either from choice or compulsion. 

The language is good; the rhyme neither faltering through 

too close attention, nor careless from lack of it; the 

choice of words, with one exception — a speech of 

Pierrot's which I do not remember contains a word of 

inexcusable crudeness — is sound: and — heaven sent 

genius — the play is not too long; i.e., no padding, no 

mental sofa pillows to break the fall of the doomed and 

tiring mind. A lusty tenuous simplicity; the gods have 

given Miss Millay a strong wrist; and though an idea 

alone does not make or mar a piece of writing, it is some- 

thing; and this one of hers will live even though Miss 

Amy Lowell intricately festoons it with broken glass, or 

Mr. Carl Sandburg sets it in the stock yards, to be acted, 

of a Saturday afternoon, by the Beef Butchers' Union. 



W. F. 







[ 85 ] 







BOOKS & THINGS 

AMERICAN DRAMA: EUGENE O'NEILL. 







Some one has said — a Frenchman, probably; they 

have said everything — that art is preeminently provin- 

cial: i.e., it comes directly from ascertain age and a cer- 

tain locality. This is a very profound statement; for Lear 

and Hamlet and All's Well could never have been written 

anywhere save in England during Elizabeth's reign (this 

is proved by the Hamlets that have come out of Denmark 

and Sweden, and the All's Well of French comedy) nor 

could Madame Bovary have been written in any place 

other than the Rhone valley in the nineteenth century; 

and just as Balzac is nineteenth century Paris. But there 

are exceptions to this, as there are to all rules holding a 

particle of truth; two modern ones being Conrad and 

Eugene O'Neill. These two men are anomalies, Joseph 

Conrad especially; this man has overturned all literary 

tradition in this point. It is too soon yet to be committed 

about O'Neill, though young as he is, he is already a 

quantity to make one wonder at the truth of the above 

assertion. 



It is not especially difficult — after a man has written 



[ 86 ] 







and passed on — to trace the threads which were drawn 

together by him and put on paper in the form of his own 

work. It can be seen how Shakespeare ruthlessly took 

what he needed from his predecessors and contempo- 

raries, leaving behind him a drama which the hand does 

not hold blood that can cap; the German playwrights 

have obviously and logically followed their destinies 

according to the Teutonic standards of thought down to 

the work of Hauptmann and Moeller; Synge is provincial, 

smacking of the soil from which he sprang as no other 

modern does (Synge is dead now); while the one man 

who is accomplishing anything in American drama is a 

contradiction to all concepts of art. 



This may be because of the fact that America has no 

drama or literature worth the name, and hence no tradi- 

tion. If this be the reason, one must perforce believe 

that the Fates have indeed played a scurvy trick upon 

him in casting into twentieth century America a man 

who might go to astounding lengths in a land possessing 

traditions. Facts about Conrad, however, who is even 

more of a contradiction than O'Neill, supply a basis for 

hoping that chance is not diabolical enough to perpetrate 

such a thing; and also show what an incalculable, inde- 

finable quantity genius — horrible word — is. 



The most unusual factor about O'Neill is that a modern 

American should write plays about the sea. We have 

had no salt water traditions for a hundred years. The 

English are the wanderers, while we essentially are not. 

Yet here is a man, son of a New York political "boss," 

raised in New York City and a student at Princeton, who 



[ 87 ] 







writes of the sea. He has been, through accident, a sailor 

himself: he was shanghaied aboard a South American 

bound vessel and was forced to make a voyage as an able 

seaman from Rio to Liverpool in order to get home. He 

is not physically strong, having congenitally weak lungs, 

hence must lead a careful life as regards hardship and ex- 

posure; and yet his first writing phase was dominated by 

the sea. 



And he has written good healthy plays, and — a 

strange thing — New York has realized his possibilities. 

"The Emperor Jones" played there, and "The Straw" 

and "Anna Christie" are playing in New York this winter. 

These last two are later plays, not of the sea, but the 

thing that makes them go is the same that made "Gold" 

and "Diff'rent" go, that made the "Emperor Jones" rise 

up and swagger in his egoism and cruelty, and die at 

last through his own hereditary fears: they all possess 

the same clarity and simplicity of plot and language. No- 

body since "The Playboy" has gotten the force behind 

stage language that O'Neill has. The Emperor Jones' 

"who dat dare whistle in de Emperor's palace?" goes back 

to the "Playboy's" "the likes of which would make the 

mitred bishops themselves strain at the bars of paradise 

for to see the lady Helen walking in her golden shawl." 



He is still developing; his later plays "The Straw" and 

"Anna Christie" betray a changing attitude toward his 

characters, a change from a detached observation of his 

people brought low by sheer circumstance, to a more 

personal regard for their joys and hopes, their sufferings 

and despairs. Perhaps in time he will make something 



[ 88 ] 







of the wealth of natural dramatic material in this country, 

the greatest source being our language. A national litera- 

ture cannot spring from folk lore — though heaven 

knows, such a forcing has been tried often enough — 

for America is too big and there are too many folk lores: 

Southern negroes, Spanish and French strains, the old 

west, for these always will remain colloquial; nor will it 

come through our slang, which also is likewise indigenous 

to restricted portions of the country. It can, however, 

come from the strength of imaginative idiom which is 

understandable by all who read English. Nowhere to- 

day, saving in parts of Ireland, is the English language 

spoken with the same earthy strength as it is in the United 

States; though we are, as a nation, still inarticulate. 



W. F. 







[ 89 







THE HILL 







Before him and slightly above his head, the hill crest 

was clearly laid on the sky. Over it slid a sibilant invisi- 

bility of wind like a sheet of water, and it seemed to him 

that he might lift his feet from the road and swim up- 

ward and over the hill on this wind which filled his 

clothing, tightening his shirt across his chest, flapping 

his loose jacket and trousers about him, and which 

stirred the thick uncombed hair above his stubby quiet 

face. His long shadow legs rose perpendicularly and fell, 

ludicrously, as though without power of progression, as 

though his body had been mesmerized by a whimsical 

God to a futile puppet-like activity upon one spot, while 

time and life terrifically passed him and left him behind. 

At last his shadow reached the crest and fell headlong 

over it. 



The opposite valley rim came first into sight, azure 

and aloof, in the level afternoon sun. Against it, like 

figures rising in a dream, a white church spire rose, then 

house-tops, red and faded green and olive half hidden in 

budded oaks and elms. Three poplars twinkled their 

leaves against a gray sunned wall over which leaned 

peach and apple trees in an extravagance of fragile pink 

and white; and though there was no wind in the valley, 



[ 90 ] 







bent narrowly to the quiet resistless compulsion of April 

in their branches, then were still and straight again ex- 

cept for the silver mist of their never ceasing, never es- 

caping leaves. The entire valley stretched beneath him, 

and his shadow, springing far out, lay across it, quiet 

and enormous. Here and there a thread of smoke bal- 

anced precariously upon a chimney. The hamlet slept, 

wrapped in peace and quiet beneath the evening sun, 

as it had slept for a century; waiting, invisibly honey- 

combed with joys and sorrows, hopes and despairs, for 

the end of time. 



From the hilltop the valley was a motionless mosaic 

of tree and house; from the hilltop were to be seen 

no cluttered barren lots sodden with spring rain and 

churned and torn by hoof of horse and cattle, no piles 

of winter ashes and rusting tin cans, no dingy hoardings 

covered with the tattered insanities of posted salacities 

and advertisements. There was no suggestion of striving, 

of whipped vanities, of ambition and lusts, of the drying 

spittle of religious controversy; he could not see that 

the sonorous simplicity of the court house columns was 

discolored and stained with casual tobacco. In the valley 

there was no movement save the thin spiraling of smoke 

and the heart-tightening grace of the poplars, no sound 

save the measured faint reverberation of an anvil. 



The slow featureless mediocrity of his face twisted to 

an internal impulse: the terrific groping of his mind. His 

monstrous shadow lay like a portent upon the church, 

and for a moment he had almost grasped something alien 

to him, but it eluded him; and being unaware that there 



[ 91 ] 







was anything which had tried to break down the barriers 

of his mind and communicate with him, he was unaware 

that he had been eluded. Behind him was a day of harsh 

labor with his hands, a strife against the forces of nature 

to gain bread and clothing and a place to sleep, a victory 

gotten at the price of bodily tissues and the numbered 

days of his existence; before him lay the hamlet which 

was home to him, the tieless casual; and beyond it lay 

waiting another day of toil to gain bread and clothing 

and a place to sleep. In this way he worked out the 

devastating unimportance of his destiny, with a mind 

heretofore untroubled by moral quibbles and principles, 

shaken at last by the faint resistless force of spring in a 

valley at sunset. 



The sun plunged silently into the liquid green of the 

west and the valley was abruptly in shadow. And as the 

sun released him, who lived and labored in the sun, his 

mind that troubled him for the first time, became quieted. 

Here, in the dusk, nymphs and fauns might riot to a 

shrilling of thin pipes, to a shivering and hissing of cym- 

bals in a sharp volcanic abasement beneath a tall icy 

star. * * * Behind him was the motionless conflagra- 

tion of sunset, before him was the opposite valley rim 

upon the changing sky. For a while he stood on one hori- 

zon and stared across at the other, far above a world of 

endless toil and troubled slumber; untouched, untouch- 

able; forgetting, for a space, that he must return. * * * 

He slowly descended the hill. 



W. F. 



[ 92 ] 







BOOKS & THINGS 



American Drama 

Inhibitions 







Only by means of some astounding blind machination 

of chance will the next twenty-five years see in America 

a fundamentally sound play — a structure solidly built, 

properly produced and correctly acted. Playwrights and 

actors are now at the mercy of circumstances which must 

inevitably drive all imaginative people whose judgment 

is not temporarily aberrant, to various conditions of 

fancied relief; to a frank pandering to Frank Crane's 

market — holding a spiritual spittoon, so to speak, for 

that stratum which, unfortunately, has money in this 

country — to Europe; and to synthetic whiskey. 



Writing people are all so pathetically torn between a 

desire to make a figure in the world and a morbid in- 

terest in their personal egos — the deadly fruit of the 

grafting of Sigmund Freud upon the dynamic chaos of 

a hodge-podge of nationalities. And, with characteristic 

national restlessness, those with imagination and some 

talent find it unbearable. O'Neill has turned his back on 

America to write of the sea, Marsden Hartley explodes 



[ 93 ] 







vindicative fire crackers in Montmartre, Alfred Kreym- 

borg has gone to Italy, and Ezra Pound furiously toys 

with spurious bronze in London. All have found America 

aesthetically impossible; yet, being of America, will some 

day return, a few into dyspeptic exile, others to write 

joyously for the movies. 



— 2 — 



We have, in America, an inexhaustible fund of dra- 

matic material. Two sources occur to any one: the old 

Mississippi river days, and the romantic growth of rail- 

roads. And yet, when the Mississippi is mentioned, Mark 

Twain alone comes to mind: a hack writer who would 

not have been considered fourth rate in Europe, who 

tricked out a few of the old proven "sure fire" literary 

skeletons with sufficient local color to intrigue the super- 

ficial and the lazy.* 



Sound art, however, does not depend on the quality 

or quantity of available material: a man with real ability 

finds sufficient what he has to hand. Material does aid 

that person who does not possess quite enough driving 

force to create living figures out of his own brain; wealth 

of material does enable him to build better than he 

otherwise could. No one in America — no writer — can 

detach himself from the national literary shibboleths and 

pogroms to do this, though; those who are doing worth 

while things really labor infinitely more than the results 

achieved would show, for the reason that they must over- 



* Faulkner's opinion of Twain subsequently rose, until in recent years 

he has called The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn a candidate, with 

Moby-Dick, for consideration as the greatest American book. — C.C. 



[ 94 ] 







come all this self torture, must first slay the dragons which 

they, themselves, have raised. An apt instance was re- 

lated to me by a dramatic critic on a New York magazine: 

Robert Edmund Jones, a designer of stage settings, dis- 

covered that, for some time, he had been subject to an 

intangible ailment. He found that the quality of his work 

had been mysteriously deteriorating, that his sleep and 

appetite were being undermined. A friend — perhaps 

the one who assisted him in discovering his alarming con- 

dition — advised him to repair to a certain practitioner 

of the new therapeutic psycho-analysis. He did so, was 

"siked," and immediately recovered his appetite, his un- 

troubled slumber, and his old zest in stage designing. 

This is what all writers who are exposed to the prevail- 

ing literary tendencies in America must combat; and, 

so long as socialism, psycho-analysis and the aesthetic 

attitude are profitable as well as popular, so long will 

such conditions obtain. 



One rainbow we have on our dramatic horizon: lan- 

guage as it is spoken in America. In comparison with it, 

British is a Sunday night affair of bread and milk — 

melodious but slightly tiresome nightingales in a formal 

clipped hedge. Other tongues are not considered here: 

the Northman is essentially the poet and playwright, as 

the Frenchman is the painter, and the German the musi- 

cian. It does not always follow that a play built according 

to sound rules — i.e. simplicity and strength of language, 

thorough knowledge of material, and clarity of plot — 

will be a good play as a result; else play writing would be- 

come a comparatively simple process. (Language means 



[ 95 ] 







nothing to Shaw: except for the accident of birth he 

might well have written in French.) In America, how- 

ever, with our paucity of mental balance, language is our 

logical savior. Very few authors are able to say anything 

simply; these extremists fluctuate between the manners 

of various dead-and-gone stylists — achieving therefrom 

a vehicle which might well serve to advertise soap and 

cigarettes — and sheer idiocy. Those who realize that 

language is our best bet employ slang and our "hard" 

colloquialisms in order to erect an edifice which resembles 

that of a mason who endeavors to build a skyscraper with 

brick alone, forgetting the need of a steel skeleton within 

it. 



Our wealth of language and our inarticulateness (in- 

ability to derive any benefit from the language) are due 

to the same cause: our racial chaos and our instinctive 

quickness to realize our simpler needs, and to supply 

them from any source. As a nation, we are a people of 

action (the astounding growth of the moving picture 

industry is a proof); even our language is action rather 

than communication between minds: those who might 

be justly called men of ideas take their thinking con- 

sciously, a matter of mental agility like an inverted 

Swedish exercise, and they frankly and naively call upon 

all near them to see and admire. 



This is the Hydra which we have raised, and which 

we become pessimists or idiots slaying; who have the 

fundamentals of the lustiest language of modern times; 

a language that seems, to the newly arrived foreigner, 

a mass of subtleties for the reason that it is employed 



[ 96 ] 







only as a means of relief, when physical action is im- 

possible or unpleasant, by all classes, ranging from the 

Harvard professor, through the gardeniaed aloof young 

liberal, to the lowliest pop vendor at the ball park. 



W. F. 







[ 97 ] 







Portrait 



By WILLIAM FAULKNER 







Raise your hand between us, to your face, 

And draw the opaque curtains on your eyes. 

Let us walk here, softly checked with shadow, 

And talk of careful trivialities. 



Let us lightly speak at random; tonight's movie, 

Repeat a broken conversation, word for word; 

Of friends, and happiness. The darkness scurries, 

And we hear again a music both have heard 



Singing blood to blood between our palms. 

Come, lift your eyes, your tiny scrap of mouth 

So lightly mobile on your dim white face; 

Aloofly talk of life, profound in youth 



And simple also. Young and white and strange 

You walk beside me down this shadowed street, 

Against my hand your small breast softly lies, 

And your laughter breaks the rhythm of our feet. 



You are so young. And frankly you believe 

This world, this darkened street, this shadowed wall 

Are dim with beauty you passionately know 

Cannot fade nor cool nor die at all. 



[ 99 ] 







Raise your hand, then, to your scarce seen face, 

And draw the opaque curtains on your eyes; 

Profoundly speak of life, of simple truths, 

The while your voice is clear with frank surprise. 







[ 100 ] 







BOOKS AND THINGS 

JOSEPH HERGESHEIMER. 



Linda Condon — Cytherea — The Bright Shawl. 







No one since Poe has allowed himself to be enslaved 

by words as has Hergesheimer. What was, in Poe, how- 

ever, a morbid but masculine emotional curiosity has 

degenerated with the age to a deliberate pandering to 

the emotions in Hergesheimer, like an attenuation of 

violins. A strange case of sex crucifixion turned backward 

upon itself: Mirandola and Cardinal Bembo become ges- 

tures in tinsel. He is subjective enough to bear life with 

fair equanimity, but he is afraid of living, of man in his 

sorry clay braving chance and circumstance. 



He has never written a novel — someone has yet to coin 

the word for each unit of his work — Linda Condon, in 

which he reached his apex, is not a novel. It is more like 

a lovely Byzantine frieze: a few unforgettable figures in 

silent arrested motion, forever beyond the reach of time 

and troubling the heart like music. His people are never 

actuated from within; they do not create life about them; 

they are like puppets assuming graceful but meaningless 

postures in answer to the author's compulsions, and hold- 



[ 101 1 







ing these attitudes until he arranges their limbs again 

in other gestures as graceful and as meaningless. His tact, 

though, is delicate and flawless — always a social grace. 

One can imagine Hergesheimer submerging himself in 

Linda Condon as in a still harbor where the age cannot 

hurt him and where rumor of the world reaches him only 

as a far faint sound of rain. Perhaps he wrote the book 

for this reason: surely a man of his delicacy and per- 

ception would never suffer the delusion that Linda Con- 

don is a novel. 



For this reason the book troubles the heart, the 

faintest shadow of an insistence; as though one were 

waked from a dream, for a space into a quiet region of 

light and shadow, soundless and beyond despair. La 

figlia della sua mente, Famorosa l'idea. 



Cytherea is nothing — the apostle James making an 

obscene gesture. Rather, the apostle James trying to carry 

off a top hat and a morning coat. A palpable and bootless 

attempt to ape the literary colors of the day. 



The Bright Shawl is better. The sublimated dime 

novel peopled, like Cytherea, with morbid men and ob- 

scene women. But skilful; the tricks of the trade were 

never employed with better effect, unless by Conrad. 

The induction to The Bright Shawl is good — he talks 

of the shawl for a page or so before one is aware of the 

presence of the shawl as a material object, before the 

word itself is said; it is like being in a room full of people, 

one of whom one has not yet directly looked at, though 

conscious all the time of his presence. 



These two books have swung to the opposite extreme 



[ 102 ] 







from Linda Condon. Hergesheimer has tried to enter 

life, with disastrous results; Sinclair Lewis and the New 

York Times have corrupted him. He should never try 

to write about people at all; he should spend his time, 

if he must write, describing trees or marble fountains, 

houses or cities. Here his ability to write flawless prose 

would not be tortured by his unfortunate reactions to 

the apish imbecilities of the human race. As it is, he is 

like an emasculate priest surrounded by the puppets he 

has carved and clothed and painted — a terrific world 

without motion or meaning. 



W. F. 







103 







Appendix 







On Criticism 



By WILLIAM FAULKNER 







Walt Whitman said, among bombast and muscle- 

bound platitudes, that to have great poets there must be 

great audiences too. If Walt Whitman realized this it 

should be universally obvious in this day of radio to in- 

form us and the so-called high-brow magazines to correct 

our information; not to speak of the personal touch of 

the lecture platform. And yet, what have the periodicals 

and lecturers done to create either great audiences or 

great writers of us? Do these Sybils take the neophyte 

gently in hand and instruct him in the fundamentals of 

taste? They do not even try to inculcate in him a rever- 

ence for their mysteries, (thus robbing criticism of even 

its emotional value — and how else are you to control 

the herd, except through its emotions? Was there ever a 

logical mob?). Thus there is no tradition, no esprit de 

corps: All that is necessary for admission to the ranks 

of criticism is a typewriter. 



They do not even try to mould his opinions for him. 

True, it is scarcely worth while moulding anyone's 

opinions for him, but it is pleasant pastime changing his 



[ 109 ] 







opinion from one fallacy to another, for his soul's sake. 

The American critic, like the prestidigitator, tries to find 

just how much he can let the spectator see, and still get 

away with it — the superiority of the hand over the eye. 

He takes the piece under examination for an instrument 

upon which to run difficult arpeggios of cleverness. This 

seems so sophomoric, so useless; like the cornetist per- 

forming aural acrobatics while waiting for the band to 

assemble. With this difference: the cornetist gets tired 

after a while, and stops. The amazing possibility here 

occurs that the critic enjoys his own music. Do they, then 

enjoy reading each other? One can as easily imagine 

barbers shaving each other for fun. 



The American critic blinds, not only his audience 

but himself as well, to the prime essential. His trade be- 

comes mental gymnastics: he becomes a reincarnation 

of the side-show spell-binder of happy memory, holding 

the yokelry enravished, not with what he says, but how 

he says it. Their minds fly shut before the eye-filling 

meretricity of pyrotechnics. Who has not heard this 

conversation? 



"Have you seen the last . . . (suit yourself)? Jones 

Brown is good this time; he . . . uh, What is that book? 

a novel, I think ... on the end of my tongue ... by 

some fellow. Anyway, Jones refers to him as an aes- 

thetic boy scout. It's good: you must read it." 



"Yes, I will: Brown is always good, do you remember 

what he said about someone: 'A parrot that couldn't fly 

and had never learned to curse'?" 



And yet, when you ask him the author's name, or the 



[ no ] 







book's, or what it is about, he cannot tell you! He either 

has not read it, or has not only been unmoved by it but 

has waited to read Brown to form an opinion. And 

Brown has offered no opinion whatever. Perhaps Brown 

himself has none. 



How much better they do this sort of thing in Eng- 

land than in America! Of course there are in America 

critics as sane and tolerant and as soundly equipped, but 

with a few exceptions they have no status: the magazines 

which set the standard ignore them; or finding con- 

ditions unbearable, they ignore the magazines and live 

abroad. In a recent number of "The Saturday Review" 

Mr. Gerald Gould, reviewing "The Hidden Player" by 

Alfred Noyes, says: 



"People do not talk like that ... It will not do to set 

down ordinary speech of ordinary people; that would 

generally be dull ... To give the deadly detail is 

misleading." Here is the essential of criticism. So just 

and clear and complete: there is nothing more to be 

said. A criticism which not only the public, but the author 

as well, may read with profit. But what American critic 

would let it go at this? Who among our literary arbiters 

could miss this chance of referring to Mr. Noyes as "an 

aesthetic boy scout," or something else as sophomoric 

and irrelevant? And what reader could then pick up 

the book with an unbiased mind, without a faint un- 

ease of patronage and pity . . . not for the book, but 

for Mr. Noyes? One in a hundred. And what writer, with 

his own compulsions to suffer, with his own urge to dis- 

figure paper harrying him like a gad-fly, could get any 



[ HI ] 







profit or nourishment from being referred to as an aes- 

thetic boy scout? Not one. 



Saneness, that is the word. Live and let live; criticise 

with taste for a criterion, and not tongue. The English re- 

view criticises the book, the American the author. The 

American critic foists upon the reading public a distorted 

buffoon within whose shadow the titles of sundry uncut 

volumes vaguely lurk. Surely, if there are two professions 

in which there should be no professional jealousy, they 

are prostitution and literature. 



As it is, competition becomes cutthroat. The writer 

cannot begin to compete with the critic, he is too busy 

writing and also he is organically unfitted for the contest. 

And if he had time and were properly armed, it would 

be unfair. The critic, once he becomes a habit with his 

readers, is considered infallible by them; and his contact 

with them is direct enough to allow him always the last 

word. And with the American the last word carries 

weight, is culminative. Probably because it gives him a 

chance to talk some himself. 







[ 112 ] 







Dying Gladiator 



By WILLIAM FAULKNER 







What sorrow, love, that the wind and the raining wake? 

Man's life is but an April without a morrow 

Between a snow and a season of snow. What sorrow 

That winter again about his head must break? 



Man's life is short, nor lingers. Gods! 



What April knew thee, Caia, in thy young whiteness! 



The shepherd lad of thee had a new lightness 



To magic him, a clod among other clods. 



This was youth, the world a star and a hill: 

Rome but an echo, untroubled of us, the immortals; 

Torches were less, and trumpets aloft in the portals 

Ringing his blood to a flame, that it might spill. 



What sorrow, love? Bronze in an age of bronze 



And life is but the gesture of a caesar, 



Death the mistress that dying, alone, could please her, 



Dying, he may force her bastions. 



Briefer, love, briefer than all the pain 

Of April and youth, are garland and leaf and swallow. 

What sorrow, love, that a field for a space lay fallow? 

What sorrow, love, for drouth, after the rain? 



[ 113 ] 







Verse Old and Nascent: 



A Pilgrimage 

By WILLIAM FAULKNER 







At the age of sixteen, I discovered Swinburne. Or 

rather, Swinburne discovered me, springing from some 

tortured undergrowth of my adolescence, like a highway- 

man, making me his slave. My mental life at that period 

was so completely and smoothly veneered with surface 

insincerity — obviously necessary to me at that time, to 

support intact my personal integrity — that I can not 

tell to this day exactly to what depth he stirred me, just 

how deeply the footprints of his passage are left in my 

mind. It seems to me now that I found him nothing but 

a flexible vessel into which I might put my own vague 

emotional shapes without breaking them. It was years 

later that I found in him much more than bright and 

bitter sound, more than a satisfying tinsel of blood and 

death and gold and the inevitable sea. True, I dipped 

into Shelley and Keats — who doesn't, at that age? — 

but they did not move me. 



I do not think it was assurance so much, merely 

complacence and a youthful morbidity, which counter- 



[ 114 ] 







acted them and left me cold. I was not interested in verse 

for verse's sake then. I read and employed verse, firstly, 

for the purpose of furthering various philanderings in 

which I was engaged, secondly, to complete a youthful 

gesture I was then making, of being "different" in a 

small town. Later, my concupiscence waning, I turned 

inevitably to verse, finding therein an emotional counter- 

part far more satisfactory for two reasons: (1) No 

partner was required (2) It was so much simpler just 

to close a book, and take a walk. I do not mean by this 

that I ever found anything sexual in Swinburne: there 

is no sex in Swinburne. The mathematician, surely; and 

eroticism just as there is eroticism in form and color and 

movement wherever found. But not that tortured sex in 

— say — D. H. Lawrence. 



It is a time-honored custom to read Omar to one's 

mistress as an accompaniment to consummation — a 

sort of stringed obligato among the sighs. I found that 

verse could be employed not only to temporarily blind the 

spirit to the ungraceful posturings of the flesh, but also to 

speed onward the whole affair. Ah, women, with their 

hungry snatching little souls! With a man it is — quite 

often — art for art's sake; with a woman it is always 

art for the artist's sake. 



Whatever it was that I found in Swinburne, it com- 

pletely satisfied me and filled my inner life. I cannot 

understand now how I could have regarded the others 

with such dull complacency. Surely, if one be moved at 

all by Swinburne he must inevitably find in Swinburne's 

forerunners some kinship. Perhaps it is that Swinburne, 



[ 115 ] 







having taken his heritage and elaborated it to the despair 

of any would-be poet, has coarsened it to tickle the dullest 

of palates as well as the most discriminating, as used 

water can be drunk by both hogs and gods. 



Therefore, I believe I came as near as possible to ap- 

proaching poetry with an unprejudiced mind. I was 

subject to the usual proselyting of an older person, but 

the strings were pulled so casually as scarcely to influence 

my point of view. I had no opinions at that time, the 

opinions I later formed were all factitious and were dis- 

carded. I approached Poetry unawed, as if to say; "Now, 

let's see what you have." Having used verse, I would now 

allow verse to use me if it could. 



When the co-ordinated chaos of the war was replaced 

by the unco-ordinated chaos of peace I took seriously to 

reading verse. With no background whatever I joined the 

pack belling loudly after contemporary poets. I could 

not always tell what it was all about but "This is the 

stuff," I told myself, believing, like so many, that if one 

cried loudly enough to be heard above the din, and so 

convinced others that one was "in the know," one would 

be automatically accoladed. I joined an emotional 

B.P.O.E. 



The beauty — spiritual and physical — of the South 

lies in the fact that God has done so much for it and man 

so little. I have this for which to thank whatever gods may 

be: that having fixed my roots in this soil all contact, 

saving by the printed word, with contemporary poets is 

impossible. 



That page is closed to me forever. I read Robinson 



[ 116 ] 







and Frost with pleasure, and Aldington; Conrad Aiken's 

minor music still echoes in my heart; but beyond these, 

that period might have never been. I no longer try to read 

the others at all. 



It was "The Shropshire Lad" which closed the period. 

I found a paperbound copy in a bookshop and when I 

opened it I discovered there the secret after which the 

moderns course howling like curs on a cold trail in a 

dark wood, giving off, it is true, an occasional note clear 

with beauty, but curs just the same. Here was reason 

for being born into a fantastic world: discovering the 

splendor of fortitude, the beauty of being of the soil 

like a tree about which fools might howl and which 

winds of disillusion and death and despair might strip, 

leaving it bleak, without bitterness; beautiful in sadness. 



From this point the road is obvious, Shakespeare I 

read, and Spenser, and the Elizabethans, and Shelley 

and Keats. I read "Thou still unravished bride of quiet- 

ness" and found a still water withal strong and potent, 

quiet with its own strength, and satisfying as bread. That 

beautiful awareness, so sure of its own power that it is 

not necessary to create the illusion of force by frenzy 

and motion. Take the odes to a nightingale, to a Grecian 

urn, "Music to hear," etc.; here is the spiritual beauty 

which the moderns strive vainly for with trickery, and 

yet beneath it one knows are entrails; masculinity. 



Occasionally I see modern verse in magazines. In four 

years I have found but one cause of interest; a tendency 

among them to revert to formal rhymes and conventional 

forms again. Have they, too, seen the writing on the wall? 



[ U7 ] 







Can one still hope? Or is this age, this decade, impossible 

for the creation of poetry? Is there nowhere among us 

a Keats in embryo, someone who will tune his lute to 

the beauty of the world? Life is not different from what 

it was when Shelley drove like a swallow southward 

from the unbearable English winter; living may be dif- 

ferent, but not life. Time changes us, but Time's self 

does not change. Here is the same air, the same sunlight 

in which Shelley dreamed of golden men and women im- 

mortal in a silver world and in which young John Keats 

wrote "Endymion" trying to gain enough silver to marry 

Fannie Brawne and set up an apothecary's shop. Is not 

there among us someone who can write something 

beautiful and passionate and sad instead of saddening? 







[ 118 ] 







The Faun 



To H.L. 

By WILLIAM FAULKNER 







When laggard March, a faun whose stampings ring 

And ripple the leaves with hiding: vain pursuit 

Of May's anticipated dryad, mute 

And yet unwombed of the moist flanks of spring; 



Within the green dilemma of faint leaves 



His panting puzzled heart is wrung and blind: 



To run the singing corridors of wind, 



Out-pace waned moons to May hand shapes and grieves; 



Or, leafed close and passionate, to remain 

And taste his bitter thumbs 'till May again 

Left bare by wild vines' slipping, does incite 

To strip the musiced leaves upon her breast 

And from a cup unlipped, undreamt, unguessed, 

Sip that wine sweet-sunned for Jove's delight. 







[ 119 ] 









[ 120 ] 







Notes on the Text 







Notes on the Text 







In the following notes William Faulkner's drawings, 

poems, and prose pieces which this volume reprints are 

listed in the order of their first published appearance — 

and therefore in the order of their appearance in this 

volume as well. When this reprinting has altered the 

original texts the alterations have been noted here. 







Drawing of woman and bald man dancing: Ole Miss, 1916-1917, 

Vol. XXI, p. 163, introducing a section of "Social Ac- 

tivities." 



Drawing of two men and a woman standing before a checker- 

board background: Ole Miss, 1917-1918, Vol. XXII, 

p. Ill, introducing a section of "Social Activities." 



Drawing of woman and man standing before a background 

lettered "Red and Blue": Ole Miss, 1917-1918, Vol. 

XXII, p. 113, a page listing members of the Red and 

Blue Club, a dancing society. 



"L'Apres-Midi d'un Faune": The New Republic, Vol. XX (Au- 

gust 6, 1919), p. 24. Later, in the University of Missis- 

sippi newspaper, The Mississippian, on October 29, 1919, 

page 4, Faulkner published the following, somewhat dif- 

ferent, version of this poem, reproduced here verbatim: 



[ 123 ] 







L'Apres-Midi D'un Faune 



I follow through the singing trees 

Her streaming clouded hair and face 

And lascivious dreaming knees 

Like gleaming water from some place 

Of sleeping streams, or autumn leaves 

Slow shed through still love wearied air. 

She pauses; and as one who grieves, 

Shakes down her blown and vagrant hair 

To veil her face, but not her eyes — 

A hot quick spark, each sudden glance, 

Or as the wild brown bee that flies 

Sweet winged, a sharp extravagance 

Of kisses on my limbs and neck. 

She whirls and dances through the trees 

That lift and sway like arms and fleck 

Her with quick shadows, and the breeze 

Lies on her short and circled breast. 

Now hand in hand with her I go. 

The green night in the silver west 

Of virgin stars, pale row on row 

Like ghostly hands, and ere she sleep 

The dusk will take her by some stream 

In silent meadows, dim and deep — 

In dreams of stars and dreaming dream. 



I have a sudden wish to go 



To some far silent midnight moon, 



Where lonely streams whisper and flow 



And sigh on sands blanched by the moon. 



And blond limbed dancers whirling past 



The senile worn moon staring through 



The sighing trees, until at last 



Their hair is powdered bright with dew. 



And their sad slow limbs and brows 



Are petals drifting with the breeze, 



Shed from the fingers of the boughs; 



Then suddenly, on all of these 



A sound, like some great deep bell stroke 



[ 124 ] 







Falls, and they dance, unclad and cold — 

It was the earth's great heart that broke 

For springlbroke before the world grew old. 



William Faulkner of University 

of Mississippi. From the New 

Republic, Aug. 6, 1919. 



"CATHAY.": The Mississippian, November 12, 1919, p. 8. This 

poem was especially badly set in The Mississippian. 

Part of the emendation here derives not only from an 

attempt to estimate what alterations are logical but 

from examination of the three other versions of the poem 

mentioned in the introduction to this volume. 



Line 1 : The Mississippian printed only the first of the two 



commas in this line. 

Line 3: "foretells" appeared in The Mississippian as "for- 



tells." 

Line 6: The Mississippian ended this line with a semicolon. 

Line 14: The Mississippian indented this line. 

Line 15: "spawn" appeared in The Mississippian as "span." 

Line 17: The Mississippian printed "thee" as "the" and made 



"nor will" into a two-word succeeding line. 



"LANDING IN LUCK.": The Mississippian, November 26, 



1919, pp. 2 and 7. This story appeared in a column 



headed "WEEKLY SHORT STORY Edited by Professor 



Erwin." 



Paragraph 3, sentence 1 : "barracks" appeared as "barrack's." 



Paragraph 6, sentence 2: "climbed" appeared as "climed." 



Paragraph 7, sentence 9: "devilish" appeared as "devilsh." 



Paragraph 8, sentence 1: "A silence hung" appeared as "A 



silence that hung." 

Paragraph 9, sentence 4: "it's your neck" appeared as "its 



your neck." 

Paragraph 11, sentence 2: "He gained speed" appeared as 



"He gained sped." 

Paragraph 11, sentence 3: "though he had taken" appeared 

as "thought he had taken." 



[ 125 ] 







Paragraph 15, sentence 1: the original omitted the quota- 

tion marks before "thinks." 



Paragraph 16, sentence 2: "edge" appeared as "elge." 



Paragraph 18, sentence 3: Though the question mark end- 

ing this sentence could have been a typographical error in 

the original, it has been retained here. 



Paragraph 18, sentence 15: "followed cautiously by" ap- 

peared as "following cautiously by," which idiom and para- 

graph 25 indicate is a typographical error; and "dogs meet- 

ing" appeared originally as "dogs meetin." 



Paragraph 19, sentence 1: "CO." appeared as "CO"; and 

"three lesser lights" appeared as "thre lesser lights." 



Paragraph 20: in the original a comma immediately followed 

the question mark. 



Paragraph 21, sentence 1: "'ere, sir" appeared as "'ere 

sir." 



Paragraph 23, sentence 1: the quotation marks preceding this 

sentence did not appear in the original. 



Paragraph 28, sentence 1: the third set of quotation marks, 

being reversed in the original, erroneously closed a quota- 

tion instead of opening one. 



Paragraph 33, sentence 1: the second set of quotation marks, 

being reversed in the original, erroneously opened a quo- 

tation instead of closing one. 



Paragraph 35, sentence 1: the end of this sentence appeared 

without the question mark and closing quotation marks. 



Paragraph 36, sentence 1: "he stared into" appeared as "he 

satred into." 



Paragraph 36, sentences 2, 3, 4, and 5: Because the only 

available original text lacks the top of parts of these lines 

of type, this volume prints some of these letters without 

much textual justification and the quotation marks and the 

apostrophe without any textual justification whatever. 



Paragraph 36, sentence 4: "N.CO.'s" appeared as "N.CO's." 



Paragraph 39, sentence 4: "he was all staring eyes" appeared 

as "he was al lstaring eyes." 



Paragraph 42, sentence 2: in the original this sentence did 

not begin with quotation marks. 



Paragraph 50: in the original this sentence did not begin with 

quotation marks. 



[ 126 ] 







Paragraph 52, sentence 4: "You're" appeared as "Your'e." 



Paragraph 52, sentence 5: "Why, I got" appeared as "Why I 

got." 



Paragraph 54, sentence 1 : the second set of quotation marks, 

being reversed in the original, erroneously opened a quota- 

tion instead of closing one. 



Paragraph 55, sentence 5: double quotation marks appeared 

in the original before and after the letter "f." 



"SAPPHICS.": The Mississippian, November 26, 1919, p. 3. 



Line 4: the period which ends this line is an emendation, per- 

haps improper, of the comma which ended this line in The 

Mississippian. 



Line 8: the comma which ends this line is an emendation, 

perhaps improper, of the period which ended this line in 

The Mississippian. 



Line 23: "Lethean" appeared as "Lethan." 



"AFTER FIFTY YEARS.": The Mississippian, December 10, 

1919, p. 4. 

Line 2: this reprinting, perhaps improperly, omits the period 

with which The Mississippian ended this line. 



"UNE BALLADE DES FEMMES PERDUES": The Mississip- 

pian, January 28, 1920, p. 3. 

Title: because of typographical error, this title appeared as 



"UNE BALAD HEDES FEMMES PERDUES" in The 



Mississippian. 

The quotation from Villon: this appeared as "'Mais ou sont 



les nieges d' antan' " in The Mississippian. 

Line 4: The Mississippian printed " — Ca ne fait rein! Helas" 



as the first part of this line. 

Line 6: in a holograph version of this poem dated January 1, 



1920, in a decorated gift booklet, Faulkner hyphenated 



"lute strings" in line 6, "boarding school" in line 7, "love 



songs" in line 10, and "star dust" in line 20. 

Line 9: "Amorous" appeared as "Amourous." 



"NAIADS' SONG.": The Mississippian, February 4, 1920, p. 3. 

Line 14: "there" appeared as "here." 



[ 127 ] 







Line 44: "glides he in forgetful ness" appeared as "glides he 

is forgetfulness." 



"FANTOCHES.": The Mississippian, February 25, 1920, p. 3. 



Title: in The Mississippian, presumably through typographical 

error, this title appeared as "FANTOUCHES."; because no 

such word seems to exist, this reprinting has changed the 

spelling to that of Verlaine's title. 



"a Paul Verlaine.": the printer of The Mississippian, following 

his practice of using no accents, printed "a Paul Verlaine." 

here. 



Line 1 : this reprinting, perhaps improperly, retains The 

Mississippian spelling of "Scaramouches" and "Pucinella" 

on the ground that, though in Verlaine's poem, "Fantoches," 

the first line ("Scaramouche et Pulcinella,") uses the tra- 

ditional spellings, Faulkner, who presumably changed one 

of these two traditional male figures into a woman, just pos- 

sibly may have deliberately changed the traditional spelling 

of their names also. 



Line 4: this reprinting, perhaps improperly, retains The 

Mississippian text's "of Bogona" on the ground that though 

"of Bologna" is the translation of Verlaine's "Bolonais" 

Faulkner may have altered this name deliberately just as 

he may have altered the poem's two other proper names 

(see note next above). 



Line 5: "skull cap" appeared as "skull cup." 



Line 6: "eye" appeared as "eyes." 



Line 12: "garde" appeared as "grade." 



"CLAIR DE LUNE.": The Mississippian, March 3, 1920, p. 6. 



Line 4: "fanchise," which appeared in The Mississippian, is 

presumably a typographical error; if so, Faulkner may have 

written "franchise." But "franchise" fails to fit his other- 

wise rather regular rhyme scheme. Perhaps the reader 

would prefer to substitute here some such word as "fantasy." 



Line 6: "conqueror" appeared as "conquerer." 



"STREETS.": The Mississippian, March 17, 1920, p. 2. 



Line 1 : though The Mississippian ended the exclamation in 

this line and lines 13 and 17 with periods, it seems reason- 



[ 128 ] 







able to assume that the periods are typographical errors and 

should be replaced by exclamation points like those which 

end this same exclamation in lines 5 and 9 as well as in all 

its five appearances in Verlaine's poem. 

Line 12: The Mississippian ended this line with a period which, 

correctly or not, is omitted in this reprinting on the assump- 

tion that it is a typographical error because all other lines in 

the poem except the five repetitions of the exclamation end 

without punctuation though some of them call for punctu- 

ation as much — or as little — as this line does. 



"A POPLAR.": The Mississippian, March 17, 1920, p. 7. 

Line 8: "ecstatic" appeared as "extatic." 



"A CLYMENE.": The Mississippian, April 14, 1920, p. 3. 



Title: following its practice of using no accents, The Mississip- 

pian printed this as "A CLYMENE." 



"STUDY.": The Mississippian, April 21, 1920, p. 4. 

Line 16: "silver" appeared as "silvtr." 



"ALMA MATER.": The Mississippian, May 12, 1920, p. 3. 

Line 14: in the original this line did not end with a period. 



Drawing of four men facing the reader above the caption 

"CLASSES": Ole Miss, 1919-1920, Vol. XXIV, p. 29. 

Though this drawing is unsigned it is in the style charac- 

teristic of the four drawings Faulkner did sign in this vol- 

ume of the annual. 



Drawing of woman and man in high wind beneath the caption 

"Organizations": Ole Miss, 1919-1920, Vol. XXIV, p. 

105. 



Drawing of woman and army officer: Ole Miss, 1919-1920, Vol. 

XXIV, p. 145, on a page listing members of the A.E.F. 

Club. 



Drawing of two men and a woman before candelabra beneath 



[ 129 1 







the caption "Social Activities": Ole Miss, 1919-1920, 

Vol. XXIV, p. 155. 



Drawing of woman and man dancing beside the caption "Red 

& Blue": Ole Miss, 1919-1920, Vol. XXIV, p. 157, on 

a page listing members of the Red and Blue Club, a 

dancing society. 



"To a Co-ed": Ole Miss, 1919-1920, Vol. XXIV, p. 174. 

Line 4: the original did not end this line with a period. 



"BOOKS AND THINGS" [review of W. A. Percy, In April 

Once]: The Mississippian, November 10, 1920, p. 5. 



Paragraph 2, sentence 1 : "Mississippian, a graduate" ap- 

peared as "Mississippian a graduate." 



Paragraphs 2 and 3: The Mississippian, printing several lines 

of type out of their proper order, put parts of each of 

these paragraphs in the other. The lines have been un- 

scrambled here. 



Paragraph 3, sentence 3: "His muse" appeared as "His His 

muse"; and "ecstasies" appeared as "ecstacies." 



Paragraph 3, line 3 of the poem by Percy: The Mississip- 

pian did not end this line with Percy's comma. 



Paragraph 3, line 8 of the poem by Percy: The Mississip- 

pian did not follow "alone" with Percy's comma. 



"BOOKS & THINGS" [review of Conrad Aiken, Turns and 

Movies]: The Mississippian, February 16, 1921, p. 5. 

The excerpt from Aiken's "Discordants": in The Mississippian, 

the fifth line did not end with Aiken's comma and in the 

seventh line his "beloved" appeared as "beloved." 



"CO-EDUCATION AT OLE MISS.": The Mississippian, May 

4, 1921, p. 5. 

Line 9: "lov'st" appeared as "love'st." 



Drawing of sailor, soldier, and airman above the caption "FISH, 

FLESH, FOWL": Ole Miss, 1920-1921, Vol. XXV, p. 

129, on a page listing members of the University's post 

of the American Legion. 



[ 130 ] 







Drawing of non-commissioned officer and four commissioned 

officers under the caption "A.E.F. CLUB": Ole Miss, 

1920-1921, Vol. XXV, p. 131. 



Decorative border and the caption "MARIONETTES": Ole 

Miss, 1920-1921, Vol. XXV, p. 135, on a page listing 

members of The Marionettes, a drama society. Though 

this drawing is unsigned it is in Faulkner's characteristic 

style. 



Drawing of man and woman dancing before jazz orchestra: 

Ole Miss, 1920-1921, Vol. XXV, p. 137, on a page list- 

ing the members of the Red and Blue Club, a dancing 

society. 



"NOCTURNE.": and decorative border: Ole Miss, 1920-1921, 

Vol. XXV, pp. 214-215. In Ole Miss the plates appeared 

in inverted order. Though this poem and drawing are un- 

signed they are in Faulkner's characteristic lettering and 

style. 



"BOOKS & THINGS" [review of Edna St. Vincent Millay, Aria 

da Capo]: The Mississippian, January 13, 1922, p. 5. 



"BOOKS & THINGS: AMERICAN DRAMA: EUGENE 

O'NEILL.": The Mississippian, February 3, 1922, p. 5. 

Paragraph 1, sentence 2: "Rhone valley in the nineteenth 

century" appeared as "Rhone valley in the eighteenth cen- 

tury." 

Paragraph 5, sentence 3: the quotation marks before the title 

"Gold" appeared as a single quotation mark. 



"THE HILL": The Mississippian, March 10, 1922, pp. 1 and 2. 

Paragraph 1, sentence 2: "invisibility" appeared as "invis- 



ability." 

Paragraph 2: the end of this paragraph appeared without a 



period. 

Paragraph 3, sentence 2: "simplicity of the court house 



columns was discolored" appeared as "simplicity of the 



court house columns were discolored." 



[ 131 ] 







Paragraph 4, sentence 3: "the tieless casual" appeared as 

"the Tieless casual." 



Initials at the conclusion: though the original was without 

these initials, the next issue of The Mississippian (March 

17, 1922, p. 5) printed this statement: "Correction: Through 

some error the initials 'W.F.' were omitted from the sketch 

entitled The Hill' which appeared in the last issue of The 

Mississippian. We hereby mak [sic] amends." 



"BOOKS & THINGS: American Drama: inhibitions": The Mis- 

sissippian, March 17, 1922, p. 5; and March 24, 1922, 

p. 5. 

Section 1, paragraph 1, sentence 1: "twenty-five" appeared 



as "twenty five." 

Section 1, paragraph 1, sentence 2: "to Frank Crane's market" 



appeared as "to Frank Crane market," and "stratum" ap- 

peared as "strata." 

Section 1, paragraph 2, sentence 3: "Kreymborg" appeared 



as "Kreyemborg." 

Section 2, paragraph 2, sentence 3: "literary shibboleths and 



pogroms" appeared as "literary shibboleth and pogroms," 



with extra space after "shibboleth." 

Section 2, paragraph 2: the March 17 installment ended 



with this paragraph. 

Section 2, paragraph 3, sentence 5: ended in the original 



without a period. 



Drawing of woman and man at rail of ship: Ole Miss, 1922, 

Vol. XXVI, p. 188, on a page listing the members of the 

French Club. Though this drawing and joke are unsigned 

they are in Faulkner's characteristic lettering and style. 



"Portrait": Double Dealer (New Orleans), Vol. Ill (June, 1922), 

p. 337. 



"BOOKS AND THINGS" [review of Joseph Hergesheimer, 



Linda Condon, Cytherea, and The Bright Shawl]: The 



Mississippian, December 15, 1922, p. 5. 



Paragraph 2, sentence 3: "graceful" appeared as "fraceful." 



Paragraph 3, sentence 2: "La figlia" appeared as "La figlio." 



[ 132 ] 







Paragraph 5, sentence 3: "skilful" appeared as "skilfull." 



Drawing of three women boarding a streetcar while two men 

watch: The Scream, May, 1925, Vol. I, No. 5, p. 11. 

Later the plate was cut in two and used again, in The 

Scream, May, 1927, Vol. Ill, No. 8, where the section 

showing the three women appears on p. 12 and the 

section showing the two men appears on p. 14. 



Drawing of one man supporting another before a statue: The 

Scream, May, 1925, Vol. I, No. 5, p. 14. 



Drawing of two men and an automobile: The Scream, May, 

1925, Vol. I, No. 5, p. 15. 







"On Criticism": Double Dealer, Vol. VII (January-February, 

1925), pp. 83-84. 

Paragraph 1, sentence 6: "esprit de corps" appeared as 



"espirt-du-corps." 

Paragraph 4, sentence 4: "It's" appeared as "Its." 

Paragraph 10, sentence 4: "enough" appeared as "enought." 



"Dying Gladiator": Double Dealer, Vol. VII (January-February, 

1925), p. 85. 



"Verse Old And Nascent: A Pilgrimage": Double Dealer, Vol. 

VII (April, 1925), pp. 129-131. 

Paragraph 4, sentence 4: "discriminating" appeared as "dis- 



ciminating." 

Paragraph 10, sentence 1: "Spenser" appeared as "Spencer." 

Paragraph 10, sentence 4: "nightingale" appeared as "Night- 

ingale." 

Paragraph 11, sentence 9: "Shelley" appeared as "Shelly." 



"The Faun": Double Dealer, Vol. VII (April, 1925), p. 148. 

Line 13: "undreamt" appeared as "undreampt." 



[ 133 ] 







Drawing of an aviator hanging to an airplane by one hand: 

The Scream, 1925, Vol. II, No. 1, p. 12. This unsigned 

drawing, judging by its style and the styles of the draw- 

ings signed by other contributors to The Scream, possibly 

is by William Faulkner. 







[ 134 ] 







Due 





Date 

Returned 





Due 

Due 





Returned 





t A 

















JA 





V 2 2004 



















































































































































































































































































































































































































t 







William Faulkner: early prose main 

8l8.5F263wC5 







3 12bE 0330*1 27T1 




