ate Chopin’s short story “Regret” depicts one instance in the life of an elderly, unmarried woman. A spinster by choice, Mamzelle Aurelie lives on her farm with her animals, her dog Ponto, and “the negroes who lived in her cabins and worked her crops”. Aurelie is accustomed to life on her own and able to run her farm because of the many masculine characteristics that she possesses, but the unexpected arrival of her neighbor’s children changes her. She is forced to confront her feminine, nurturing side, and while it does not awaken a complete change in the solitary matron, it does begin to make her regret some of the choices she has made in her life.



From the start, Mamzelle Aurelie is described in masculine terms. She has “a good strong figure, ruddy cheeks” and “a determined eye”. She wears “a man’s hat”, a “blue army overcoat”, and even sometimes “top-boots”. There is no femininity in her description, nor does there appear to be any desire to become more feminine. The typical markers of femininity, in both appearance and character, appear to be missing. She is unmarried with no desire to change that fact and she finds the appearance of Odile’s children to be “unwelcome”. Aurelie is content in her world as overseer of her farm and manager of her workers. This is re-enforced by the fact that Aurelie is unmarried by choice. She had received a proposal and rejected it, meaning she is not unmarried because she was unfit or lacking, she is unmarried because she wants to be that way.



The arrival of Odile’s children, which is “so unexpected and bewildering” to Aurelie, slowly works a change over in the woman. Left with Odile’s children so that Odile can visit her ailing mother, Aurelie first treats the children like she was their superior officer and they were soldiers. When she is first left with the children, Aurelie determines “upon a line of action which should be identical with a line of duty”. She is rational, collected, and deals with the situation in a practical way, all typical male characteristics. It does not take long, however, before Aurelie is “unearth[ing] white aprons that she had not worn in years” and getting “down her sewing-basket, which she seldom used”. The fact that Aurelie has to unearth her aprons implies that she had buried that part of herself, putting it behind her. Now she must face these more feminine aspects of herself as she transforms from military officer to mother.



Her interaction with the children leaves Mazmelle Aurelie changed, but not transformed. The impact of their visit can be seen in the setting of the story. When the children first arrive, they huddle in a “narrow strip of shade”, a foreshadowing to the effect they will have on the house. The darkness, however, is limited in the beginning. The “white sunlight was beating in”, there was the “pleasant odor of pinks in the air,” and the farm was filled with “the sound of negroes’ laughter”. Aurelie was a solitary figure, but she was not an unhappy one. She was surrounded by light, fresh aromas, and laughter. When the children leave, however, “the evening shadows” started “creeping and deepening around her solitary figure”. Aurelie had experienced a part of life that she had shut herself out from and would never be able to have. Until she experienced the life and vibrancy children could bring to a household, she had not realized what she was missing. This revelation does not completely change Aurelie, indeed, when she cries she does so “like a man, with sobs that seemed to tear her very soul”, but she does begin to regret the choices she has made.



“Regret” begins with Aurelie, a 50 year old, unmarried woman who runs an entire farm and manages her workforce without any desire or need for outside assistance or even contact. When she is tasked with watching her neighbor’s children, a change begins to occur in Aurelie. She is forced to take on a more feminine role, breaking out her aprons, sewing, and telling the children stories so they can fall asleep. Aurelie is softened to the point where she cries when the children leave because she has realized what she has missed by remaining unmarried, but she still retains enough of her original character to cry “like a man”.