As the idea of the ‘Gothic’ develops through different generations, the reader has to consider the possibility that maybe ‘Gothic’ cannot be directly defined. In order to understand this, the reader must discover the reoccurring themes within ‘Gothic’ stories and notice how they change; just as the reader should recognize that the themes are developing based on new societal norms and advances. This analysis will use Ambrose Bierce’s “A Vine on a House” to help discover what ‘Gothic’ is by finding and discussing the traditional elements of the ‘Gothic’ in the short story. Though only a few pages long, “A Vine on a House” is able to create an all-encompassing representation of what ‘Gothic’ is, and can be’ with a singular element. The concepts and definition of the Gothic in Literature are heavily prevalent in Ambrose Bierce’s “A Vine on a House” by following the setting, characters and storyline to find and the discover the main themes of oppression and the supernatural through multiple interpretations of who and what the vine is.



The literary classification of ‘Gothic’ is an all-encompassing atmosphere of darkness and oppression. Though it is suggested that “it might be best thought of as a symbolic realm rather than as a clear definable entity,” (Rintoul 703). Whether it be literal, or metaphorical, these concepts help to create the essentials of Gothic storylines and transport the reader into a world of ridiculousness, barbarianism, dramatics, and death. “Because we remember pain and the menace of death more vividly than pleasure…uncertainty and danger are always closely allied,” (Lovecraft). In other words, ‘Gothic’ plays on human fears and experience thus amplifying the reader’s natural ability to associate danger with uncertainty and project this onto different scenarios. The idea of Gothic functions to create a mindset for the audience in order to help them prepare for the story that is to be told. When reading a story, novel, or poem, or watching a movie or play that is presented as ‘Gothic,’ a reader’s mind will typically go to a dark place where they anticipate ulterior motives, the supernatural, and other common gothic tropes. This thought process, is one reason that the literary use of the word ‘Gothic’ has never developed as being a positive term (Baldick xiii). Calling a piece of literature ‘Gothic’, allows the reader to interpret, from the beginning, that the story will be challenging the norm of the society that it was written for.



Gothic, in reference to literature in particular, repeatedly presents the theme of escaping oppression. The oppression or oppressor could take many forms, as could the methods of escaping. The characters always find themselves in situations and settings that involve darkness, and decay; these setting are usually punctuated by storms and the presence of the supernatural. Ultimately, the idea of ‘Gothic’ falls back onto H.P. Lovecraft’s idea that “the oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown.” The premise of ‘Gothic’ literature is to play on the fears of its readers; this is done by using the idea of creating a tyrant, damsel, and hero for a story in order to help represent the wrongs of society that the author is attempting to bring to the forefront of a reader’s mind. So, for every tyrant, there is a damsel in distress. And for every damsel, there is a hero; however, the hero could be entirely unsuccessful despite their noble intentions, or could in fact be the damsel themselves. The reader of Gothic Literature must remember that while there are many ideas, themes, theories, and reoccurrences as to what ‘Gothic’ is, it is ultimately ever-changing because of its need to go against the norms of its current society.