A perfect combination of subtlety and wit make this story worth reading. O’Henry’s talent lies in his remarkable ability to express matters with such a graceful delicacy that only an attentive reader can understand their true meaning. An extensive use of symbols spares him the need of saying things directly. In “Hearts and Hands”, explicit statements are scarce and therefore the story’s actual meaning cannot be described as straightforward.



A couple of men enter a train and place themselves on the only remaining seats; that is how the narration begins. Suddenly, the fine and beautiful woman sitting in front of them raises her head and addresses the younger of them with a certain degree of annoyance. She was evidently very well acquainted with him. When that happens, an explanation had to be made, for the handcuffs linking his right hand to his partner’s left could not possibly pass unnoticed.



Being a marshal, he had to resign his hand’s freedom in compliment of his duty. His companion was a prisoner in transit to jail. Surprisingly, though, the marshal did not need to account for that, since the prisoner had already done it for him.



The woman finds it a bit hard to believe and shows herself astonished at such piece of information. Her sudden encounter with an old friend recalls in her mind, nostalgic memories from the past. Feelings of yearning and melancholy are also present on the tone of her speech.



The marshal’s answers are, however, brief and laconic. There is a certain hint of disinterest on his words, which makes him look almost disdainful.



Eventually, the prisoner makes a rather impolite remark, interrupting the conversation. In a surprisingly authoritarian manner, he utters his wish to have a drink and a cigarette. It is just a mere euphemism for expressing his desire to leave that place.



Against all expectations, the marshal agrees and they both walk away leaving the woman alone. Their sudden departure is made without so much as a farewell, which causes an utterly awkward atmosphere on the place. Even the other passengers know that there is something wrong.



The events that have just occurred on the train do not make any sense and many issues remain unresolved. Why did the young man show himself so reluctant to speak with an old friend? For what reason did he yield so quickly to the prisoner’s request? What was the true relationship between the marshal and the woman?



As the story approaches its end, the reader might fear that such questions will not be clarified. Nevertheless, a huge revelation arises at the very last paragraph. Only two sentences suffice to make the whole narration acquire a new and unexpected significance. Love, deceit and pride are then manifested to be the main themes in “Hearts and Hands”.