Formatted as a private autobiographical account, Anton Chekhov’s “A Boring Story” is the story of an elderly and illustrious medical professor named Nikolai Stepanovich. As Nikolai Stepanovich declares early in his account “my name is closely associated with the conception of a highly distinguished man of great gifts and unquestionable usefulness” (I). But as “A Boring Story” progresses, these positive first impressions are undermined, and Nikolai Stepanovich describes in great detail his financial worries, his obsession with death, and his bouts of sleeplessness. He even views his physical appearance in an unflattering light: “I am myself as dingy and unsightly as my name is brilliant and splendid” (I).



Many of Nikolai Stepanovich’s acquaintances, colleagues, and family members are sources of great irritation. He is tired of the mediocrity and absurd formality of his fellow medical specialists. And his students are a burden. As Nikolai Stepanovich describes one young doctor who visits him in search of guidance, ‘the doctor gets a subject from me for his theme not worth a halfpenny, writes under my supervision a dissertation of no use to any one, with dignity defends it in a dreary discussion, and receives a degree of no use to him” (II). Added to this are Nikolai Stepanovich’s wife, an “old, very stout, ungainly woman, with her dull expression of petty anxiety,” (I) and Nikolai Stepanovich’s daughter, who is being courted by a foppish, suspicious fellow named Gnekker.



Yet there are a few consolations for the aging professor. Two of his regular companions are a young woman named Katya and “a tall, well-built man of fifty” named Mikhail Fyodorovich (III). Although Katya and Mikhail are full of disdain for the society, and even for the world of science and learning, Nikolai Stepanovich seems attracted to the uncompromising sophistication and intelligence that they represent. But as Nikolai Stepanovich well knows, Katya was once extremely troubled. She tried a theatrical career and had a child out of wedlock, and Nikolai Stepanovich served as her correspondent and counselor during these misadventures.



As “A Boring Story” enters its final stretches, Nikolai Stepanovich’s life begins to take an increasingly unpleasant direction. He tells of his summer vacation, where he suffers from sleeplessness in “a small, very cheerful little room with light blue hangings” (IV). He also travels to Gnekker’s hometown, Harkov, to see what he can learn about his daughter’s suitor. Unfortunately for Nikolai Stepanovich, Gnekker and his daughter elope while he is away on this dreary excursion. In the story’s final paragraphs, Katya arrives in Harkov in a state of distress and begs Nikolai Stepanovich for advice: “You are my father, you know, my only friend! You are clever, educated; you have lived so long; you have been a teacher! Tell me, what am I to do" (VI). But Nikolai Stepanovich has no wisdom to offer. His treasured Katya leaves him, and he sits alone in his hotel room, resigned to death.