'A Dead Woman's Secret', written by Guy de Maupassant in the late nineteenth century, is a short story with few characters but much emotion. The themes of death, family, and secrecy are interconnected within a story that keeps readers glued to the page in anticipation. It is a good read at 1411 words.



The story begins with a deceased woman's body laying peacefully on a bed. The words used to describe her body create a likeness for the older woman, including "sweet soul" and "blameless." In the room with her are her two adult children: her son, a judge, and her daughter, a nun.



The reader learns of the strong connection among the three. The children barely knew their father and were taught high morals by their mother. The background is now set for the reader as a tightly-knit family of high moral values. This basis will be key to enticing feelings of shock and surprise in the reader later in the story when the children learn of love letters addressed to their mother.



A priest enters the room and offers his company to the grieving children, who explain they would prefer to be alone. Again, this is reference to the strong family bond. The grieving period of the children follows, turning from silence to cries out in grief. The daughter even knocks her head against the woodwork of the bed in her sadness.



The daughter suggests reading their mother's letters which are kept in a drawer in the room. Their mother used to read letters aloud to them; the daughter wants to relive the old woman's life through the words and also learn more of her past. She begins with the package labeled "Father" and reads aloud to the body as her brother listens.



The second package is unnamed, and the daughter begins to read a letter from this package. The paper however is a love letter to their mother with includes statements about missing her body and touch. The letter is signed by "Henry", which is not the name of their father. The two children are speechless. The son walks to the window, and the daughter is on the verge of crying. When daylight comes, the son starts to leave the room and says, without looking at his mother's body, "let us now retire sister." This sentence is the end of the story.



Over the course of the story there is a drastic change of emotion felt by the son toward his mother. At the conclusion, he appears angry at her as he chooses to look out the window rather than at her body. He leaves the room without a final look at her. This reaction to her body is very different from the beginning, where he is grief-stricken and wants to spend time with his mother. Indeed, he even tells a priest he wants time alone with his family. His reaction to learning of his mother's secret by turning away is an example of how some people feel it is easier to get through a difficult situation by turning your back and leaving without further discussion.



His reaction is different from his sister's response to learning of their mother's secret. She does not turn away from the body, and says very little. Perhaps de Maupassant wants the reader to imagine how she is feeling, or is alluding to the shock felt by the daughter to the point that she does not speak at the end of the story. De Maupassant may also be pointing out men and women can react differently in times of turmoil.



Shock is indeed felt by the reader as the love letter written by "Henry" is described. The affair by the now deceased woman sharply contrasts the seemingly moral family portrayal at the start of the story. Questions are raised about morals and secrecy.



For instance, what do the son, a judge, and the daughter, a nun, do with the information they have learned about their mother's love affair? Is the son still able to perform his job now armed with his mother's secret, which goes against the 'tell the truth' principle of the courtroom? Is the daughter still able to pray as a nun given that secret love affairs are frowned on within the church?



The story also causes the reader to question how well one really knows somebody, even one's own parent. Should one dig around in others' pasts to learn more about them, or leave them to disclose what they wish and leave it at that? Does one really need to know everything about everyone, thereby running the risk of learning details of which one may not approve and has not anticipated?



The imagery in the story is detailed and essential for showing the strength of the relationships between the mother and children. "A Dead Woman's Secret" packs a lot of description and emotion well into a small package. Author Guy de Maupassant has written other short stories, as well as novels and poetry. He has written in both English and French. More of his works can be found through an online search of his name.