E. M. Forster has filled this modern fantasy with wordplay and hidden allusions that allow it to function as an allegory on literary snobbery. The unnamed protagonist, a boy, has begun to discover the joy of literature; untutored, he plunges ahead uncritically and appreciates the popular and the classical with equal enthusiasm. He is, however, spiritually imprisoned in his parents’ suburban home in “Surbiton,” Agathox Lodge, appropriately a corruption of agathos, the Greek word for “good.”



The adults who surround the boy merely stifle his curiosity. For example, when he naïvely asks the meaning of the sign that points toward a blind alley but reads “To Heaven,” his flustered mother answers that it had been placed there by “naughty young men.” She elaborates, though she still does not answer, by adding that one of them wrote verse and was expelled from the university, an oblique reference to Percy Bysshe Shelley. Mr. Bons (“snob” spelled backward), a family friend and frequent guest, wants the adults to know that he has caught the reference, though he does not tell the boy what he wants to know. The boy innocently admits that he has never heard of Shelley, and Mr. Bons is aghast (“no Shelley in the house?”). There are “at least” two Shelleys in the house—not, however, collections of Shelley’s poems but rather framed prints, both of which were wedding presents. (Mr. Bons has seven Shelleys.)



Surbiton at sunset has, for the boy, the beauty of an Alpine valley. He is filled with vague stirrings “for something just a little different,” and he finds it in a cryptic paper posted on the wall of “the alley to heaven.” Shelley had his skylark; the boy has a celestial omnibus, which leaves for Heaven twice daily from that very alley opposite his home.



The boy’s journey is a Wagnerian spectacular straight out of Der Ring des Nibelungen (1852). The driver (the essayist Sir Thomas Browne) heads upward through lightning and thunder, which synthesize to create a rainbow bridge to Heaven. Color and sound become one for the boy. Sir Thomas Browne and the boy pass the...