‘Lost Hearts’ is an unusual ghost story by MR James’s usual standards. Unlike most of his stories, it is set in the past – 1811, almost a century before it was written. However, there is not much period detail, and it could easily be transplanted to James’s usual Edwardian setting without really affecting the story.



It is one of the very few stories James wrote in which the main character is not a middle-aged bachelor. Stephen Elliot is an eleven-year-old orphan invited to live with his elderly cousin, Mr. Abney. However, Abney is an expert in arcane knowledge such as ‘the religious beliefs of the later pagans’, and ‘the superstitions of the Romans of the Lower Empire’, which puts him firmly in the James tradition of men who are searching after knowledge they should leave well alone. In fact, Abney is a villainous version of the usual James protagonist, using his esoteric knowledge for thoroughly evil ends. Our first glimpse of him gives him almost Dickensian dialogue which clearly tells us he is not to be trusted.



The housekeeper Mrs. Bunch is the other major character, and one of the few prominent female characters in the entire James canon. She is there purely for plot exposition. It is through her that we learn that Stephen is the third child to have found a home with Mr. Abney. The first two – an Italian boy and a gypsy girl – both vanished without trace. The girl’s disappearance was accompanied by weird singing, the first creepy touch in what is, for James, an unusually horrible story.



It is also a shorter than usual story, lacking James’s usual digressions and donnish good cheer. Stephen is soon having nightmares about a dead girl in his bath (a scene which almost anticipates Stephen King’s ‘The Shining’). Mysterious scratches appear on his bedroom door, and something shreds his nightshirt while he sleeps.



The story comes to a rather gory conclusion, which is signposted well in advance, but which still shocks, at least in the context of James’s usual work. Although the climax, featuring mysterious voices, ghostly children and hideous revenge, is scary, it does feel a bit sudden, and no one moment has the chilling effect of James’s best stories.



But ‘Lost Hearts’ is refreshing among MR James’s work, because it is very self-consciously trying something a bit different. The ghosts, although scary, are ultimately on the side of good, seeking to avenge a great wrong done to them. This is a far cry from the usual, terrifying agents of doom summoned up by a James protagonist. MR James generally stuck firmly to his formula; although not his scariest story, ‘Lost Hearts’ is good enough to make one wish he had ventured out of his comfort zone a little more often.