Oil of Dog is a short  horror story written by Ambrose Bierce. It is narrated by a young boy who is telling the story of his parents who descended into an odd sort of insanity as they  begin by creating oil by boiling dogs but soon discover a better source of oil.



There are a number of different types of horror. There is the horror of what man is simply not meant to know. These are the lovecraftian stories and while this story isn’t technically that it is certainly something a child is not meant to know. The second is the horror of something horrible happening, death and fear of death and finally there is the horror of indifference. This is in large part what makes things like the Holocaust so horrible not that man could do that to other men, that is something we sadly already know but that people would choose to ignore it because it was easier and safer. Oil of Dog hits all three of these points and does it well.



The story is of a young boy who very early says that he was responsible for the death of his parents. We then begin to learn about them. His mother gets rid of unwanted children. It is never said exactly how this works but she certainly kills them whether it is through abortion or simply killing children. Either way though the boy’s job is to get rid of these small corpses. Typically he dumps them into the river but one night he is unable to do so.



This leads to his father’s profession. The man has learned to make an oil out of dogs, seemingly by boiling them which is used by the local doctors.  The boy decides to put the baby into the boiling pot and they discover that the oil it creates is even better.



From there, as a horror story, this seems pretty clear and it certainly it is dark.  What is most disturbing though is that the people of the town seem to know and their response is to have a town meeting and tell the two that if they continue to kidnap people and boil them in order to create oil it will be met negatively.



This story doesn’t age as well as some but it is still interesting and it is certainly well worth reading as an odd and disturbing story.