Rhea and Rhoda Kunkel were eleven-year-old twins who basked in their youth and were a bit of hellions in the town, but now are being buried.  The twins were murdered by Roger Whipple, who was mentally unfit and spent his dying days in a psychiatric hospital.  He would be buried in the same hospital as the twins.  The narrator notices how different the girls are in the casket than in real life.  The narrator notes how Whipple was a good-natured but in special education but also as someone who was someone that was giggled at often.  The narrator was a friend of Rhea and Rhoda and explains just how lively they were.  The narrator shares more anecdotes of the twins and the power they exerted over others, including herself.  She explains that they regularly tested their powers over other people.   Roger insisted that he didn't do anything but also that he couldn't remember anything.   Rhea and Rhoda had gone up to Whipple's Ice, where Roger worked his family business of cutting ice.  He was worked hard at the business but never said a word, despite how hot it was. They had rode their bikes around him in a slightly teasing fashion, trying to see how close they could get to him.  He enjoyed the attention and excitement.  After enjoying ice that he provided, they dump the remainder in the dirt.  He tells them that he has some secret things in his room.  The girls are interested and Rhea first offers to go up to see since Roger says only one can go to see it at a time.  Rhea and Roger are in the room for a while and Rhoda gets impatient.  Finally, Roger comes back out but with no sign of Rhea.  But the narrator tells us nothing more of what happened.  The Whipples called the police after finding the bodies in the back of the icehouse.  Mr. Whipple knows immediately what had happened.  The narrator reflects that since the Whipples' business ended and the parents had died, the house is now occupied by others.  She remembers it because a while back after she married, she had a lusting affair and they would often meet behind the barn.  She would think of Rhea and Rhoda while in this car and this too reminded her of her parents watching over her after the twins' murders.  While in the car with her lover, she would look and think about how the events had played out.  The story ends with the narrator saying she wasn't there but some things, people just know. 